Environmental,
social and
governance
review
Our ESG review sets out our approach to our 42 Environmental
environment, customers, employees and 63 Social
73 Governance
governance. It explains how we aim to achieve
our purpose, deliver our strategy in a way that is
sustainable, and build strong relationships with all
of our stakeholders.
How we present our TCFD disclosures
Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 18 and
additional information is included on pages 444 to 450. Further
details have been embedded in this section and the Risk review
section on pages 219 to 228. Our TCFD disclosures are highlighted
with the following symbol: TCFD
Shanghai, China, 1870s. Waterfront View.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 41
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Environmental
TCFD
Transition to net zero
We aim to support the transition to net zero and a sustainable future
in partnership with our customers and other stakeholders
At a glance
Supporting the transition to net zero is a key customers on their transition plans, managing transition plan review referenced in our 3Q24
priority for HSBC. In 2020, we set an ambition to the products and services that we offer, and earnings release in October.
become a net zero bank by 2050. We continue adapting the financing choices we make to help
As we calibrate our approach for the latest
to develop our capabilities, products and services move the world towards a resilient, net zero
context, we will seek to balance being ambitious
to support our customers’ transition, reduce economy.
on net zero while recognising the present near-
emissions in our own operations and partner for
We have set 2030 targets that combine financed term global challenges and the associated
systemic change.
and facilitated emissions for the oil and gas impact of the transition playing out differently
We believe supporting our customers’ transition sector on an absolute emissions reduction basis, across the regions and sectors we serve. In
both benefits their business and helps generate and for the power and utilities sector using an doing so we plan to draw on the latest scientific
long-term financial returns for our shareholders. emissions intensity metric. We have also set a evidence and credible industry-specific
Since we set our net zero ambition, we have target for on-balance sheet financed emissions pathways, while, at the same time, maintaining
seen promising progress in some vital areas of for thermal coal mining. our commitment under our 2021 Climate
the decarbonisation challenge. Yet while the For demand-side sectors, we have set 2030 Resolution.
transition has progressed, the global pace of
emissions intensity targets to reflect the need to Own operations and supply chain
change remains insufficient. We are limited by,
scale up low-emissions technologies while In 2020, we set an ambition to reach net zero in
and cannot on our own overcome, the present
transitioning away from existing high-emitting our operations and supply chain by 2030. Our
lag in policy measures and the overall slower
technologies in transport and industry. As part of approach is to reduce emissions from
pace of the transition.
our financial reporting, we present the progress consumption, replace consumption with low-
In our net zero transition plan published in for these sectors against our published financed emissions alternatives, and remove remaining
January 2024 we committed to continually emissions baselines and targets. emissions with high-quality carbon credits, in line
calibrate our approach to take into consideration As we have set out in our net zero transition with external guidance.
the latest scientific methodologies, climate-
plan, we must acknowledge that there are We continue to make good progress in driving
related policies, and developments in the real
fundamental prerequisites, outside of our down our direct emissions. However, progress
world, given that our sector portfolios reflect
control, which impact our ability to meet our in reducing scope 3 emissions in our supply
progress in the regional economies where we
2030 interim financed emissions targets. These chain is proving slower than we anticipated,
operate. As we near the mid-point towards our
include technological advancements, driven mainly by the slower pace of the transition
own 2030 targets, it is important to take stock of
diversification of the energy mix, market demand across the real economy.
our own progress so far. We have made good
for climate solutions, evolving customer
progress in reducing the emissions from our While we remain committed to our approach, it
preferences, and government leadership and
own operations but more uneven progress has become clear that we would need to rely
effective policy.
towards our ambitions for our financed heavily on carbon offsets to achieve net zero in
emissions footprint. At the current pace of decarbonisation, a our supply chain by 2030. As such, we have
combination of the above factors has led to the revisited our ambition to take into account latest
Financed emissions transition being slower than envisaged by recent best practice guidance on carbon offsets. We are
Our strategy is to support emissions reductions Paris-aligned net zero scenarios. Against this now focused on achieving net zero across our
in the wider economy by working with our background, we have begun a review of our operations, travel and supply chain by 2050.
portfolio of customers to facilitate the emissions interim 2030 financed emission targets and
reductions they are seeking to make. We associated policies as part of the annual net zero
continue to focus on engaging with our
In this section
Understanding We continue to evolve our disclosures taking into consideration data Page 43
our climate limitations and other challenges, and provide an overview of key changes for
reporting 2024.
Supporting our Sustainable finance and We seek to support our customers’ transition to net zero, including through Page 45
customers investment the provision and facilitation of sustainable finance and investment solutions.
Partnering for Supporting systemic change We focus on building partnerships that help support an enabling environment for Page 47
systemic change to help deliver net zero scaling net zero solutions in the geographies most impacted by climate change.
Embedding net Financed emissions We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050. Page 48
zero Net zero in our own We aim to achieve net zero in our own operations, travel and supply chain by Page 58
operations 2050, in line with our overarching net zero ambition.
Managing climate risk We manage climate risk across our businesses in line with our Group-wide risk Page 60
management framework and continue to enhance our stress testing and
scenario analysis capability to identify and understand climate-related risks.
Sustainability risk policies Our sustainability risk policies help to set out our appetite for financing and Page 61
advisory activities in certain sectors.
42 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Understanding our climate reporting
Continuing to evolve our climate Lack of consistency across sustainable
disclosures finance taxonomies Key changes to our 2024 disclosures
We engage with standard setters to support Sustainable finance metrics, taxonomies and We are committed to timely and
the development of transparent and consistent practices currently lack global consistency. As transparent reporting. However, we
climate-related industry standards in areas such standards develop and regulatory guidance recognise that challenges may result in us
as product labelling, sustainability disclosures, evolves across jurisdictions, our targets, having to change certain disclosures. In
sustainable finance taxonomy and emissions methodologies and disclosures may also 2024, there was an impact on certain
accounting. In 2025, we will continue to review need to adapt. Recognising these challenges, climate disclosures, including:
and enhance our approach to disclosures. we have developed and disclosed our – Financed emissions for the automotive,
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data thermal coal mining and aviation sectors:
Internal and external data challenges Dictionary to accompany reporting against our In 2024, we made a methodological
The effective measurement, governance and sustainable financing and investment change to the way we calculate
reporting of progress against our climate ambition. For further details, see page 45. financed emissions for our automotive
ambitions relies heavily on the availability and clients. In addition, we identified errors
quality of both internal and external data. The evolution of the dictionary could lead to in both the thermal coal mining and
Newer data sources and topics may be difficult differences in year-on-year reporting. We aviation sectors, including errors in
to assure using traditional verification continue to engage with standard setters in lending product codes. These changes
techniques. This, coupled with diverse external different regions to support the development have resulted in a 25% decrease in
data sources and complex structures, further of transparent and consistent taxonomies to emissions reported for automotive and a
complicates data consolidation. Our internal encourage science-based decarbonisation, 30% increase in emissions reported for
data on customer groups that was used to particularly in high transition risk sectors. aviation in 2022 figures, and a 18%
source financial exposure and emissions data, increase in emissions reported for
is based on credit and relationship Impact on our reporting and financial thermal coal mining in the 2020 baseline
management factors and is not always aligned statements figure on an absolute financed
with the need to analyse emissions across We have assessed the impact of climate risk emissions basis. For further details, see
sector value chains. This can result in on our balance sheet and have concluded that page 51.
inconsistencies in our financed emissions no incremental adjustments were needed to – Thermal coal exposure: we continue to
calculations. capture climate impacts in our financial refine our basis of preparation and have
statements for the year ended 31 December made further enhancements in 2024.
We continue to invest in the development of 2024. The effects of climate change are a For further details, see page 62.
data and analytics capabilities to support our source of uncertainty. We capture known and – Supply chain emissions: we have
transition. This includes sourcing more reliable observable potential impacts of climate- restated our supply chain emissions due
data from external providers. We are also related risks in our asset valuations and to revisions in our methodology and an
developing our processes, systems, controls balance sheet calculations. These are error in the mapping of industry averages.
and governance to meet the demands of future considered in relevant areas of our balance This has resulted in a 25% increase to
ESG reporting. sheet, including expected credit losses, our 2019 baseline emissions and a 2%
classification and measurement of financial increase to our 2023 reported emissions.
Given our dependency on collecting emissions
instruments, goodwill and other intangible For further details, see page 59.
data from our clients and the manual nature of
assets; and in making the long-term viability
the process, enhanced verification and – Asset management financed emissions
and going concern assessment. As part of
assurance procedures are performed on a 2019 baseline: we have re-baselined our
assessing the impact on our financial
sample basis over this data, including the first 2019 intensity figure due to an error in
statements we conducted scenario analysis
and second lines of defence. Our climate the issuer mapping and is now 124
to understand the impact of climate risk on
models undergo independent review by an tCO2e/M$ invested versus 131 tCO2e/
our business (see pages 60 and 223). For
internal model review group, and we obtain M$ invested reported in the Annual
further details of how management
limited assurance on our financed emissions Report and Accounts 2022. For further
considered the impact of climate-related risks
details, see page 57.
and sustainable finance disclosures from
on its financial position and performance, see
external parties, including our external auditors. – Energy consumption: We have restated
‘Critical estimates and judgements’ on page
our 2019 metric for total energy
354.
Policies and implementation consumption due to an error. For further
We continue to review and enhance Progress on our net zero transition plan details, see page 59
implementation of sustainability risk policies as
We continue to take actions across our
we apply them in practice. They are reviewed
organisation to support the implementation of
and, where appropriate, updated based on
our net zero transition plan. This report
factors including risk materiality,
provides key updates on our progress in 2024
implementation experience, evolving scientific
and our annual TCFD reporting.
guidance, updated climate scenarios, policy
and regulatory requirements and evolving For further details of our climate risk exposures,
industry practices. see page 219.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 43
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
To measure and manage our greenhouse gas Our own Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 31 Our financed
emissions, we follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol operations and Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect emissions See
supply chain page 48
global framework, which identifies three scopes See page 58
of emissions. Scope 1 represents the direct
emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the
indirect emissions resulting from the use of
electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 Electricity, Purchased Company
represents indirect emissions attributed to upstream h s e t a e a n a t d i m n g go se o r d v s ic a e n s d facilities
and downstream activities. Our upstream activities cooling (Category 1)
include business travel and emissions from our
supply chain including transport, distribution and
Company
waste. Our downstream activities include those
vehicles
related to investments and including financed
emissions.
Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also
Business travel Capital goods Investments and
broken down into 15 categories, of which we (Category 6) (Category 2) financed emissions
(category 15)
provide reporting emissions data for three related
to upstream activities. These are: purchased goods
and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities
and business travel (category 6). We also report
data on downstream activities for financed
emissions (category 15).
For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
1 Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated emissions’.
Assurance relating to ESG metrics TCFD
HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ The work performed for independent limited
preparation of the ESG information and all and, in respect of the greenhouse gas assurance is substantially less than the work
supporting records, including selecting emissions, in accordance with the International performed for a reasonable assurance opinion,
appropriate measurement and reporting Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 such as that provided for financial statements.
criteria, in this Annual Report and Accounts ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas
Our data dictionaries and methodologies for
2024, ESG Data Pack and the additional reports Statements’, issued by the International preparing the above ESG-related metrics and
published on our website. Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, on independent third-party limited assurance reports
the following specific ESG metrics: can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-
We recognise the importance of ESG and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
disclosures and the quality of data underpinning – our use of proceeds from Green Bond
them. We also acknowledge that our internal issuances 2024 (published in December
processes to support ESG disclosures continue 2024);
to be developed and that currently they partly – our cumulative sustainable finance and
rely on manual sourcing and categorisation of investment provided and facilitated from
data. Certain aspects of our ESG disclosures are 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2024 (see
subject to enhanced verification and assurance page 45);
procedures including the first, second and third – our on-balance sheet financed emissions for
lines of defence. Assurance assists with 2023 for six sectors, our on-balance sheet
reducing the risk of misstatement, although it financed emissions for 2021 and 2022 for
cannot be fully eliminated given the challenges thermal coal mining, and our facilitated
in data, evolving methodologies and emerging emissions for two sectors for 2023 (see
standards. We aim to continue to enhance our page 56);
approach in line with external regulations and
– our thermal coal financing drawn balance
expectations.
exposures for 2021 and 2022 (see page 62);
For 2024, ESG metrics are subject to stand- – our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3
alone independent limited third-party assurance (business travel) greenhouse gas emissions
in accordance with the International Standard data (see page 59), as well as supply chain
on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) emissions (purchased good and services, and
‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or capital goods) data; and
– our re-baselined 2019 intensity metric and the
scope 1 and 2 financed emission intensity
achieved by 31 December 2023 for our HSBC
asset management business (see page 57).
44 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Supporting our customers
Sustainable finance and investment TCFD
We aim to help our customers transition to Dictionary 2024. This included 39% where On-balance sheet sustainable lending
net zero and a sustainable future by providing the use of proceeds was dedicated to green transactions increased by 11% compared
and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of financing, 12% to social financing, and 15% with 2023. In 2024, transactions totalling
sustainable finance and investment by 2030. to other sustainable financing. It also included $0.5bn were identified as no longer fulfilling
Our sustainable finance and investment 24% of sustainability-linked financing and our eligibility criteria. These were declassified
ambition aims to help promote green, 10% of net new investment flows managed and removed from the cumulative progress
sustainable and socially-focused business and and distributed on behalf of investors. total, and reported as a negative entry in
sustainable investment products and 2024. Since 1 January 2020, the cumulative
In 2024, our underwriting of green, social,
solutions. amount declassified from the total is $1.2bn.
sustainability and sustainability-linked bonds
Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and for clients increased over the year, measured Continued progress towards achieving our
facilitated a cumulative $352.5bn of on a proportional share basis, in line with the sustainable finance and investment ambition
sustainable finance and $41.1bn of ESG and wider bond market environment, although it is dependent on market demand for the
sustainable investing, as defined in our remained at 15% of our total bond products and services set out in our
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data underwriting. Sustainable Finance and Investment Data
Dictionary 2024.
Cumulative
progress
2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 since 2020
Sustainable finance and investment summary1 ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn)
Balance sheet-related transactions provided2 47.4 42.7 42.2 26.0 10.4 168.7
Capital markets/advisory (facilitated) 37.3 33.3 34.5 48.7 30.0 183.8
ESG and sustainable investing (net new flows) 14.5 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 41.1
Total contribution6 99.2 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 393.6
Sustainable finance and investment classification by theme1
Green use of proceeds5 42.2 37.1 29.0 27.1 18.9 154.3
Social use of proceeds 9.6 8.4 6.7 11.3 9.7 45.7
Other sustainable use of proceeds3 13.9 10.7 12.6 11.7 8.3 57.2
Sustainability-linked4 19.0 19.8 28.4 24.6 3.5 95.3
ESG and sustainable investing 14.5 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 41.1
Total contribution6 99.2 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 393.6
1 The 2024 data in this table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024, which includes green, social and
sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided (including drawn and
undrawn amounts), the proportional share of facilitated capital markets/advisory activities and ESG and sustainable investing net new flows of both HSBC-owned
(Asset Management) sustainable investment funds and Wealth and Global Private Banking investments.
2 In 2024 only 9 months of WPB green/energy efficient mortgages were included for the first time within Other Qualified Green Lending, future years’ reporting will
include 12 months of transactions.
3 Sustainable use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes, assessed by HSBC against internal standards and
relevant industry guidelines.
4 Sustainability-linked products, where the coupon or interest rate is dependent on whether the borrower achieves certain pre-defined sustainability performance
target(s), are assessed by HSBC against internal standards and relevant industry guidelines and can be used for general purposes, which may be sustainable or
non-sustainable.
5 Included within the total cumulative contribution towards our ambition are transactions to customers within the six high transition risk sectors (i.e. automotive,
chemicals, construction and building materials, metal and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities) as described on page 221, of which approximately $56bn is
defined as green use of proceeds in line with the Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024.
6 The $393.6bn cumulative progress since 1 January 2020 is subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with International Standard on
Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. Our Sustainable Finance and
Investment Data Dictionary 2024 and independent third-party limited assurance report is available at: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.
Our sustainable finance and investment data dictionary
We define sustainable finance and investment We update our data dictionary annually, We engage in industry initiatives to develop our
as any form of financial service that integrates including reviewing our product definitions, understanding and approach to ‘transition
ESG criteria into business or investment adding new qualifying products and removing finance’. However, we do not currently plan to
decisions. This includes financing, investing products that no longer qualify, making include transition finance as a product label or
and related activities that support the enhancements to our internal standards, and stand-alone category in our data dictionary and
achievement of the UN SDGs, including but developing our reporting and governance. This reporting. We will continue to monitor industry
not limited to the aims of the Paris Agreement year, we also indicate for the first time the guidance as it develops.
on climate change. types of eligible environmental and social
activities we intend to consider going forward For our 2024 ESG Data Pack and Sustainable
Our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data when qualifying certain use of proceeds Finance and Investment Data Dictionary, see
Dictionary sets out our approach for classifying financing for inclusion towards our sustainable www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
financing and investment as sustainable for the responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
finance and investment ambition including:
purpose of tracking and disclosing our
climate solutions; nature; adaptation and social-
performance against our sustainable finance
related activities.
and investment ambition.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 45
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Sustainable finance and investment continued TCFD
Leveraging our strengths Pentagreen Capital, our joint venture with companies in the Google Cloud Ready
We are focused on three key areas that play to Singapore investment firm Temasek targets Sustainability programme, and support them to
our strengths as an organisation and can help marginally bankable clean energy and adaptation scale up. These companies can now access
deliver an impact on decarbonisation in the projects in Southeast Asia to support them to HSBC products and services that are tailored to
global economy, particularly in Asia-Pacific and commercial scale, with the aim of accelerating the their specific growth ambitions, including
the Middle East where the need for financing at transition to a low carbon economy. Pentagreen venture debt financing options and support from
scale is most critical. In 2024, we were named Capital completed its second deal in 2024: a green our specialist climate tech finance team.
the world’s best bank for sustainable finance in loan for BE C&I Solutions to catalyse the
Decarbonising trade and supply chains
the Euromoney Awards for Excellence. construction of distributed sustainable bioenergy
We continue to focus on helping to decarbonise
projects across Southeast Asia and India.
Transitioning industry trade flows and supply chains through our green
We support our clients in emissions-intensive To support our WPB customers, HSBC UK trade finance and sustainable trade instruments,
industries with their transition goals by engaging launched Energy Efficient Home Cashback sustainable supply chain financing and
with them on their transition plans and by Mortgages, to offer cashback incentives to sustainability-linked lending for trade.
providing financing solutions. customers taking out our mortgage loans to
We supported PDS Limited, a global fashion
finance their purchases of residential properties
In 2024, we refreshed transition plan infrastructure platform, on a trade facility to
with an A or B EPC rating.
assessments for major clients in the oil and gas, enable deployment of working capital linked to
power and utilities and coal mining sectors, and Catalysing the new economy the successful delivery of environmental and
we began assessing major clients in the We aim to support clean industrial development social targets across their operations, aligned to
automotive, aviation, cement, steel and and the scaling of entrepreneurial new economy their ESG approach.
aluminium sectors, to better understand their companies at all stages of financing across the
Mid-market and smaller businesses make up a
objectives and identify opportunities to enable markets we operate in. We do this through
large proportion of global supply chains. In 2024,
their decarbonisation strategies. direct financing and investment as well as
we expanded our sustainable finance
through catalytic partnerships.
Development of clean power generation is capabilities with the launch of a sustainability
critical to achieving net zero. We supported Abu We continue to work closely with Breakthrough improvement loan (‘SIL’) for businesses of this
Dhabi Future Energy Company (Masdar) towards Energy in developing and deploying critical size in Hong Kong and Singapore, broadening
its equity commitments on new greenfield climate solutions. We are an anchor partner in the sustainable finance options available in the
projects in renewable energy and energy the Breakthrough Energy Catalyst platform, region. We recently completed our first SIL
efficiency, by acting as joint lead manager and which provides expertise, resources and capital transaction in Asia-Pacific with Opal Cosmetics,
bookrunner in raising $1bn through its second into first-of-a-kind or first commercial scale a manufacturer and seller of personal care and
green bond issuance. projects. Additionally, in 2024 we directly beauty products headquartered in Hong Kong
supported a number of Breakthrough Energy and with a global supply chain. The proceeds
Scaling infrastructure finance plays an important
Ventures portfolio companies with venture debt from the facility will support the company’s
role in meeting global decarbonisation
and other banking services. We acted as a lead general working capital needs and ongoing
objectives. In 2024, we launched HSBC
arranger in a $100m credit facility for US-based research and development activities. We now
Infrastructure Finance (‘HIF’), which brings
Electric Hydrogen to support the manufacturing offer sustainability improvement loans to clients
together our infrastructure finance, export
and deployment of the company’s electrolyser in 11 markets.
finance, and debt/project finance capabilities to
plants in producing green hydrogen.
increase our capacity to realise opportunities in For more examples of how we are supporting
the transition to a low carbon economy. In 2024, we launched a partnership with Google our customers, see additional case studies on
pages 19, 48, 49, 50, 51, and 57.
Cloud to offer banking support for climate tech
ESG and sustainable investing
We offer a broad suite of ESG and sustainable can include, but are not limited to, climate or discretionary and alternatives. In 2024, we
investing solutions across asset management, net-zero transition plans and controversies continued to expand our investment offering with
wealth, private banking, and insurance, to help identified related to UN SDGs. the launch of eight ESG and sustainable investing
institutional and individual investors generate mutual funds and ETFs. We regularly publish
For the avoidance of doubt, products or assets
financial returns, manage risk and pursue ESG- insights to help our clients better understand the
invested pursuant to our ESG and sustainable
related objectives in line with their preferences. ESG implications of their investments.
investing approach do not necessarily qualify as
As at 31 December 2024, HSBC Asset ‘sustainable investments’ as defined by the EU In 2024, we made updates to integrate ESG into
Management managed $179.8bn in ESG and Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation and/or our client wealth advisory journey in both
sustainable investing portfolios for internal and other relevant regulations, and may not qualify as Switzerland and Luxembourg, including building
external investors. This includes those that are ‘sustainable’ products for the purposes of the UK capabilities to understand private banking
distributed by HSBC Wealth and Private Banking Sustainability Disclosure Requirements and clients’ sustainability preferences, rebalance
and those HSBC Asset Management manages European Securities and Markets Authority fund their investment portfolios and monitor
on behalf of HSBC Life. naming guidance and/or any other regulatory portfolios in line with their preferences. We also
standards. The HSBC ESG and sustainable integrated client sustainability preferences into
HSBC Asset Management recognises that its
investing approach is an internal classification the investment product filtering process for
clients’ investment objectives are evolving, and
used to establish our own ESG and sustainable retail wealth clients in Hong Kong.
sustainability preferences vary, and offers a
investing standards and to promote consistency
broad range of sustainable investing solutions, in In 2024, HSBC Life increased ESG and
across asset classes and HSBC business lines
both traditional and alternative areas of sustainable investing assets across its insurance
where relevant. Our ESG and sustainable
investment. Our ESG and sustainable investing manufacturing entities in Asia, Europe, and Latin
investing approach should not be relied on
approach includes impact funds with a clear America. The majority of these newly-deployed
externally to assess the sustainability
ESG or sustainable objective, thematic funds assets were green and sustainability-linked
characteristics of any given product.
that seek to invest in ESG or sustainable trends, bonds, followed by placements into sustainable
and strategies that seek to mitigate ESG risks by For our private banking and wealth customers, private credit funds.
investing assets with higher ESG performance we offer a range of ESG and sustainable investing
For further details of our asset management
and exclusions of those that are lower ESG products across different asset classes, including
policies, see page 62.
performing. Considerations across our approach mutual funds, ETFs, equities, fixed income,
46 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Partnering for systemic change
Supporting systemic change to help deliver net zero
We focus on building strategic partnerships that technologies. The partnership seeks to provide
can help to create an enabling environment for capacity building and facilitate connections with Our just transition approach
mobilising finance, and support development the investment community to support the The transition to net zero is expected to
and scaling-up of solutions for the net zero development and scaling of key climate drive social changes on a global scale,
transition. For example, in 2024 we made a technologies. presenting risks and opportunities for our
strategic investment in sustainable aviation fuel clients and our stakeholders. Our net
(‘SAF’) through a one-time purchase agreement Our partnership with the Venture Climate zero transition plan sets out our initial
for approximately 1.2m US gallons of SAF Alliance (‘VCA’) supports venture capital firms to approach to incorporating just transition
produced by EcoCeres, which will be used to shape and share best practices that help to considerations. We are taking steps to
refuel Cathay Pacific aircraft at Hong Kong prepare them for the climate transition at the embed just transition principles into our
International Airport. earliest stages of business creation. Work is client engagement activities, our own
underway on developing a climate solutions operations, and our financing decisions.
We continue to participate in several framework to support portfolio-level climate
sustainability-related cross-industry alliances and impact disclosure and expand VCA membership HSBC Asset Management, in line with
initiatives to help stimulate industry engagement across emerging markets. relevant stewardship activities,
on climate and nature-related issues, encourage encourages companies to identify and
the flow of finance for the net zero transition, We are supporting Apparel Impact Institute’s address the impacts of their climate
and improve global financial standards, (‘Aii’) Fashion Climate Fund, which aims to strategy on stakeholders, including
guidance, and frameworks to mobilise finance mobilise $2bn in blended finance to halve workers, suppliers, and the communities
and accelerate action. carbon emissions from the sector by 2030. We in which they operate. This may include
have leveraged our trade finance expertise to specific metrics or objectives in relation,
Through our philanthropy, we partner with a provide insights and help inform Aii’s ‘Brand but not limited to, employee training and
range of non-governmental organisations to Playbook for Financing Decarbonisation’ and the development, green job creation,
develop thought leadership, spur innovation, ‘Landscape and Opportunities to Finance the safeguarding workers’ rights and support
build capacity and test and scale climate Decarbonisation of India’s Apparel for affected communities.
solutions. Manufacturing Sector’.
We are a founding funder of the Just
Highlights from our net zero and Climate Solutions Partnership Transition Finance Lab, hosted at the
sustainability-aligned partnerships Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership with LSE’s Grantham Research Institute,
In 2024 we donated approximately $9m in grant the World Resources Institute, WWF and over which aims to accelerate solutions to
funding to help establish a portfolio of 50 local partners, continues to support nature- achieve progress on climate and wider
partnerships aligned to the strategic focus areas based solutions and energy transition in Asia. environmental goals through a people-
set out in our net zero transition plan: centred approach. Since its launch in
Since 2020, $105m in funding has been
transitioning industry, catalysing the new early 2024, the Lab has produced a range
deployed to our NGO partners. The energy
economy, and decarbonising trade and supply of outputs including: mapping just
programmes have engaged companies across
chains. We are also supporting initiatives transition policies to a set of metrics,
Asia to help set new standards in climate
focused on driving progress on cross-cutting exploration of the role investors can play
commitments for their industries and mobilised
issues, such as nature and the just transition. in facilitating a just transition in India, a
finance to support the uptake of renewables.
case study of the coal-to-clean shift in
Our collaboration with the Mission Possible The nature programmes supported the Asia
Chile, and a detailed examination of the
Partnership seeks to support decarbonisation of Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, focused
financial path to a just transition in the
some of the world’s hard-to-abate heavy on promoting sustainable palm oil production,
critical minerals sector.
industry and transport sectors. We are funding a consumption and trade across Asia, and the
joint initiative focused on demand creation for Nature-based Solutions Accelerator, which
green building materials in the Middle East, supported projects to reach investment
fostering collaboration among industry leaders, readiness.
policymakers, and innovators to unlock projects.
Through this partnership, we also launched an
We launched a new partnership with Third open-access Environmental Crimes Financial
Derivative and Founders Factory to support Toolkit to help financial institutions detect and
climate tech innovation focused on hard-to-abate monitor activities related to environmental and
sectors, particularly in Asia where there is a financial crimes. The first set of tools focuses on
significant need and growing market for such commodity-driven deforestation and land
conversion.
Our approach to nature
Around one third of the emissions reductions build nature-related skills, data capacities and clients, we began including nature-related
required to limit global warming in line with partnerships. questions in our client transition engagement
the Paris Agreement are linked to the land questionnaire.
We are taking steps to embed our approach
use system and nature.
to nature alongside delivery of our net zero Climate Asset Management, HSBC Asset
We have been further developing our implementation plans. We continue to test Management’s joint venture with climate
approach to nature, which builds on the and scale approaches to financing and investment and advisory firm Pollination, has
outline that was set out in our net zero investing in biodiversity and nature, which now raised commitments of more than $1bn
transition plan. This includes considering how has included acting as sole bookrunner and for natural capital projects around the world,
to: understand our exposure to nature; structuring bank for an Amazon reforestation- and announced the final close of its Natural
manage nature-related risks and impacts; linked outcome bond, the World Bank’s Capital and Nature Based Carbon Funds.
support our customers, including financing largest outcome bond issued to date (see
and investing in nature-related solutions; and page 19). In 2024, starting with our European
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 47
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Embedding net zero
Financed emissions TCFD
As part of our ambition to become a net zero We have set combined on-balance sheet
bank by 2050, we published initial financed financed and facilitated emissions targets for
emissions targets for 2030. As we near the two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas,
mid-point towards our 2030 targets, we have and power and utilities. We have also set
begun a review of our interim 2030 financed targets for on-balance sheet financed
emissions targets and associated policies as emissions for the following sectors: cement;
described on page 15. This forms part of our iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
annual net zero transition plan review automotive; and thermal coal mining.
referenced in our 3Q24 earnings release.
As part of our financial reporting, we present
Our analysis of financed emissions comprises the progress for these sectors against our
‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and published financed emissions baselines and
‘facilitated emissions’, which we distinguish targets.
where necessary in our reporting.
We have set absolute emissions reduction
Our on-balance sheet financed emissions targets for the oil and gas, and thermal coal
include emissions related to on-balance sheet mining sectors. For the power and utilities; Supporting India’s
lending, such as project finance and direct cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation;
transition to a greener
lending. Our facilitated emissions include and automotive sectors, we have set
emissions related to financing we help clients emissions intensity targets that allow us to economy
to raise through capital markets activities. Our deploy capital towards decarbonisation
analysis covers financing from Global Banking solutions. We acted as sole Export Credit Agency
and Markets, and Commercial Banking. (‘ECA’) coordinator and sole green
structurer for an inaugural $1bn green push
Financed emissions link the financing we export finance facility for Reliance
provide to our customers and their activities Industries (‘RIL’), guaranteed by the Italian
in the real economy, and provide an indication ECA, known as SACE. This was RIL’s first
of the associated greenhouse gas emissions. ever green loan and will be used to
They form part of our scope 3 emissions, primarily finance eligible green projects
which include emissions associated with the being developed by RIL’s new energy
use of a company’s products and services. business.
As India’s largest private sector company,
RIL is seeking to address India’s energy
challenges – affordability, sustainability and
security – with the aim of bridging the
green energy divide and supporting clean
energy infrastructure demand globally.
RIL’s new energy proposition is aimed at
creating a manufacturing ecosystem
including solar photovoltaics, advanced
energy storage and green chemical value
chains.
Our approach to financed emissions
In our approach to assessing our financed By estimating emissions and setting targets at 31 December in the year of analysis related
emissions, our key methodological decisions for customers that directly account for, or to wholesale credit and lending, including
were shaped in line with industry practices indirectly influence, the majority of emissions business loans and project finance, as the
and standards. We recognise these are still in each of the most carbon-emissive sectors, value of finance provided to customers. We
developing. we can focus our engagement and resources excluded products that were short term by
where we believe the potential for change is design and typically less than 12 months in
Coverage of our analysis
highest. For each sector, our reported duration to reduce volatility, having considered
Our analysis focuses on the most carbon-
emissions now typically include all the major the PCAF guidance and subject matter expert
emissive sectors and the parts of the value
greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, opinions from the business. For facilitated
chain where we believe the majority of
methane and nitrous oxide, among others. emissions we considered all capital market
emissions are produced, to help reduce double
These are reported as tonnes of CO transactions in scope for the year of analysis.
counting of emissions. This is different to the 2
equivalent (‘tCOe’). These included debt and equity capital
scope of sectors within the wholesale 2
markets, and syndicated loans.
corporate lending portfolio that we use to To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed
manage climate risk. These sectors are set out emissions, we follow guidance from the For further details of our financed emissions
on page 221. Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see
(‘PCAF’) standard. We use drawn balances as our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal
Exposures Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-
we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
The chart below shows the scope of our downstream activities within each sector. expert judgement and data available on
financed emissions analysis of the seven The allocation of companies to different parts company revenue streams. As data quality
sectors, including upstream, midstream, and of the value chain is highly dependent on improves, this will be further refined.
Coverage of
Scope of greenhouse
Sector emissions Value chain in scope gases (‘GHGs’)
Oil and gas 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream Integrated/
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. transport) (e.g. fuel use) diversified
Power and utilities1 1 and 2 All GHGs
Upstream (e.g. Midstream Downstream Diversified utilities -
generation) (e.g. transmission and distribution) (e.g. retail) Power generation
Cement 1 and 2 All GHGs
Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream
materials, extraction) (e.g. clinker and cement manufacturing) (e.g. construction)
Iron, steel and 1 and 2 All GHGs
aluminium
Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream
materials, extraction) (e.g. ore to steel) (e.g. construction)
Aviation 1 for airlines All GHGs
3 for aircraft
Upstream (e.g. parts Midstream Downstream
lessors manufacturers) (e.g. aircraft manufacturing) (e.g. airlines and air lessors)
Automotive 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream
(e.g. suppliers) (e.g. motor vehicle manufacture) (e.g. retail)
Thermal coal mining 1, 2 and 3 All GHGs
Upstream Midstream Downstream
(e.g. extraction) (e.g. processing) (e.g. retail)
Key: Included in analysis
1 The power and utilities value chain has been updated to show diversified utilities power generation as a separate part of the value chain. This has always been
included in-scope of the power and utilities target.
Setting our targets
Our target-setting approach to date for on- that transactions facilitated in 2028 and 2029 scientific evidence and credible industry-specific
balance sheet financed emissions and will still have an impact on the 2030 progress pathways while, at the same time, maintaining
facilitated emissions, has been to utilise a single number and will need to be taken into our commitment under our 2021 Climate
reference scenario – IEA’s NZE 2021 – to consideration as we manage progress towards Resolution.
underpin both energy supply-related sectors (oil our target.
and gas; power and utilities; and thermal coal Other sector updates
Our approach for financed emissions For the agricultural sector, due to ongoing
mining), and our published targets for demand-
accounting does not rely on purchasing credits data challenges, we are not in a position to
side sectors in transport (aviation and
to achieve any financed emissions targets we report our financed emissions or set a target at
automotive) and heavy industry (cement; and
set. this time. For commercial real estate, we
iron, steel and aluminium).
continue to work towards outlining our financed
Facilitated emissions included in our combined An evolving approach emissions ambition. For residential real estate,
In the upcoming review of our financed
metrics are weighted at 33%, in accordance we continue to expect to measure and report
emissions targets, we will seek to balance being
with the PCAF standard. To further reduce the our financed emissions in future disclosures.
ambitious on net zero while recognising present
inherent volatility in facilitated emissions, we
near-term global challenges and the associated
apply a three-year moving average across
impact of the transition playing out differently
transactions (i.e. average of 2021, 2022 and
across the regions and sectors we serve. In
2023 for the 2023 progress numbers) to track
doing so, we plan to draw on the latest
progress to our combined target. This means
Supermarket group serves up sustainability incentives
across value chain
HSBC UK has collaborated with Asda on its supply chain finance programme for over ten years. In
September 2024, as part of this ongoing partnership, we acted as the lead arranger for a new
facility, which offers $190m of financing to Asda’s suppliers on enhanced pricing terms based on a
supplier’s ESG performance.
From January 2025, the initiative will extend incentives to over 250 of Asda’s suppliers based on
their sustainability practices, as assessed by EcoVadis. This initiative showcases how major
retailers can engage their supply chains to encourage greater transparency and progress towards
wider sustainability goals.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 49
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Financed emissions continued
Data and methodology limitations
Our financed emissions estimates and – Third-party datasets that feed into our – The classification of our clients into sectors
methodological choices are shaped by the analysis may have up to a two-year lag in is performed with inputs from subject
availability of data for the sectors we analyse. reported emissions figures, and we are matter experts, and will also continue to
We are members of the PCAF, which defines working with data providers to help reduce evolve with improvements to data and our
and develops greenhouse gas accounting this. Mapping external datasets to our sector classification approach. Our internal
standards for financial institutions. Its Global internal client entities is challenging due to data on customer groups used to source
GHG Accounting and Reporting Standards for complex company ownership structures. financial exposure and emissions data is
Financed Emissions and for Facilitated based on credit and relationship
– The methodology and data used to assess
Emissions provide detailed methodological management attributes, and is not always
financed emissions and set targets are new
guidance to measure and disclose financed aligned to the data needed to analyse
and evolving, and we expect industry
and facilitated emissions. emissions across sector value chains. As
guidance, market practice, and regulations
the sub-sector, and therefore the value
– We have found that data quality scores vary to continue to change. As we undertake the
chain classification, is based on judgement,
across the different sectors and years of review of our 2030 financed emissions
this may be revised as better data becomes
our analysis. While we expect our data targets, we will use appropriate data
available. As a consequence, classification
quality scores to improve over time, as sources and current methodologies
changes can result in sectoral movement
companies continue to expand their available.
year-on-year. Emissions are calculated at a
disclosures to meet growing regulatory and – We remain conscious that the attribution counterparty group level, rather than at
stakeholder expectations, there may be factor used in the financed emissions subsidiary level, mainly due to the
fluctuations within sectors year-on-year, calculation is sensitive to changes in drawn availability of emissions data, but this may
and/or differences in the data quality scores amounts or market fluctuations, and we lead to over-or under-estimation of
between sectors due to changes in data plan to be transparent around drivers for emissions compared with calculation at the
availability. change to portfolio financed emissions counterparty level. Companies with multiple
– The majority of our clients do not yet report where possible. activities, such as conglomerates with near
the full scope of greenhouse gas emissions – We calculate sector-level emissions to equal business activity split across
included in our analysis, in particular scope intensity metrics using a portfolio-weighted multiple sectors, are excluded as these can
3 emissions at a subsidiary level. In the approach. Due to data limitations, we are have different activities covered by multiple
absence of client-reported emissions, we unable to obtain production data for all of sector targets.
estimated emissions using proxies based our clients. We therefore calculate an – The operating environment for climate
on company production and revenue emissions intensity figure using the 75th analysis and portfolio alignment is maturing.
figures. Although we sought to minimise percentile of available data points to meet We continue to work to improve our data
the use of non-company-specific data, we this data gap. management processes.
applied industry averages in our analysis
where company-specific data was For further details of our financed emissions
methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see
unavailable through our third-party datasets.
our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal
As data improves, estimates will be
Exposures Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-
replaced with reported figures. we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-
reporting-centre.
Helping to tackle food waste emissions via innovation
Food waste is a growing issue globally with an estimated one-third of all food produced going
to waste, creating significant methane emissions. Mill, a US-based technology company,
produces a food recycler for your kitchen that turns food waste into nutrient-rich food
grounds. These food grounds can be used in composting processes or picked up and
distributed to farm partners as food for soil or animals. These pathways help to keep food out
of landfill, reuse resources and reduce emissions.
In August 2024, HSBC Innovation Banking supported Mill by providing $25m of venture debt
funding following their successful Series C fundraising. The financing supports Mill to continue
to scale its food-recycler business to consumers across the US.
50 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
Our approach to emissions re-baselines and restatements
The PCAF recommends that financial scope 1 and 2 emissions in our own data and targets, including where necessary a
institutions should, in line with the operations. We also now include scope or re-baseline, is required.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value boundary changes as a key driver of change.
We expect our policy to evolve with further
Chain (scope 3) Accounting and Reporting HSBC Asset Management is covered by a
industry guidance.
Standard requirement, establish a different emissions re-baseline and
recalculation policy to ensure consistency, restatement framework as per page 57.
The table below outlines the key drivers of
comparability and relevance of the reported
change and what we expect to disclose when
Emissions data and related processes are
greenhouse gas emissions data over time.
thresholds are breached.
continually evolving. Therefore, we do not
Our emissions re-baseline and restatement
consider data and process enhancements to
policy defines the circumstances for a For further details of our emissions re-baseline
restatement of previously reported emissions be a key driver of change. This may change and restatement policy, see our Financed
data and targets, including a re-baseline. over time as data and processes mature. Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures
Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
In 2024, we reviewed and enhanced our When key drivers, in aggregate, breach our esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-
policy by extending the scope to cover defined significance thresholds, a centre.
restatement of previously reported emissions
additional emissions categories, including
Key drivers of change What we expect to disclose
Changes to the emissions methodology including those driven by – A revised comparative amount for the restatement period that
changes in industry guidance/regulations reflects the new information
– The difference between the amount disclosed in the previous
Errors, such as those in the internal application or interpretation of period and the revised comparative amount
methodology, or errors in internal data – The reasons for revising the comparative amount and why the new
information provides reliable and more relevant information
Scope or boundary changes, such as acquisitions or divestments, – The actions being taken to remediate same or similar errors in the
and inventory boundary and coverage changes future
In 2024, we made the decision to amend the For the aviation sector, we restated the 2022 We are conducting a review of our controls
approach for prioritising data sources for metrics as a lending product code was for population and product codes, and aim to
automotive clients to utilise production data previously excluded in error; it is now enhance them accordingly.
as opposed to reported third-party data, included in our analysis.
We have set out in the table below the
representing a methodological change. This
For the thermal coal mining sector, we re- restated metrics for the automotive and
change was implemented to include tailpipe
baselined the 2020 metric due to three aviation sectors, and the re-baselined metric
emissions instead of all scope 3 categories, in
errors: an incorrect product code exclusion, for the thermal coal mining sector, for
order to be consistent with the target
an error in the hierarchy construct of a client, applicable years where the significance
scenario reference pathway and industry
and the incorrect inclusion of a non-thermal threshold was breached. The significance
practice.
coal project. Methodological changes were threshold was not breached for all other
also applied to align with the refinements to sectors, or for scope or boundary changes.
our basis of preparation in our reporting.
Re-baselines and restatements Previously Reported Restated Metrics Percentage Change
Sector Reporting metrics 2020 2022 2020 2022 2020 2022
Automotive On-balance sheet financed - tCOe/million vkm - 216.6 - 170.1 - (21) %
2
On-balance sheet financed - Mt COe - 5.5 - 4.1 - (25) %
2
Aviation On-balance sheet financed - tCOe/million rpk - 86.5 - 90.2 - 4 %
2
On-balance sheet financed - Mt COe - 2.7 - 3.5 - 30 %
2
Thermal coal mining On-balance sheet financed - Mt CO 2 e 4.0 - 4.7 - 18 % -
IFC and HSBC Asset Management partner to improve
sustainability in emerging markets
In 2024, International Finance Corporation (‘IFC’), a member of the World Bank Group, and
HSBC Asset Management (‘HSBC AM’) announced their intention to establish a specialised
fund vehicle targeting corporate bond issuers in emerging markets, with the aim of increasing
access to finance and supporting sustainable growth. The fund will be classified as Article 9
under the EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation.
This announcement furthers collaboration between IFC and HSBC AM, helping to mobilise
institutional investment in key areas, such as sustainable technologies and social impact in
emerging markets. IFC has committed to invest up to $100m in the fund, which will support
an existing HSBC AM global emerging market corporate sustainable bond strategy.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 51
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Financed emissions continued
Targets and progress
We have set out in the table below our We also set out our defined targets for the When assessing the changes from 2019 to
combined on-balance sheet financed and on-balance sheet financed emissions of the 2023, it is important to emphasise how
facilitated emissions targets for the oil and following sectors: cement; iron, steel and changes to exposure and market fluctuations
gas, and power and utilities sectors. aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal impact yearly updates as we make progress
coal mining. We disclose emissions in 2022 towards our interim targets. Movement from
In 2023, applying three-year average values
and 2023 and progress achieved in 2023 one year to the next may not reflect future
weighted at 33%, facilitated emissions for
versus baseline for each sector, except for trends for the financed emissions of our
the oil and gas sector total 6.5 Mt COe, and
2 the thermal coal mining sector, for which we portfolio.
for the power and utilities sector, they total
disclose financed emissions figures for 2021
346.6 tCOe/GWh. These values are then
2 and 2022. We are continuing to work on our
combined with the on-balance sheet numbers
2023 and 2024 figures and expect to report
for the relevant year to track progress to
on these in future disclosures. In 2021,
target. We set out the annual figures before
thermal coal mining financed emissions
the application of the three-year average in
totalled 1.38 Mt COe. In 2022, they were
the facilitated emissions table on page 56. 2
down by 69% against the re-baselined 2020
figure of 4.7 Mt COe.
2
2023 % change
Sector1 Baseline 2022 2023 vs. baseline 2030 target Unit2 Target scenario
Combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions at 33%, with three-year moving average
Oil and gas 42.6 in 2019 31.9 23.2 (46) % (34) % Mt COe IEA NZE 2021
2
Power and utilities 513.4 in 2019 396.8 349.0 (32) % 138.0 tCOe/GWh IEA NZE 2021
2
On-balance sheet financed emissions
Cement 0.64 in 2019 0.71 0.59 (8) % 0.46 tCOe/t cement IEA NZE 2021
2
Iron, steel and aluminium 1.8 in 2019 2.5 2.1 17 % 1.05 (1.43)3 tCOe/t metal IEA NZE 2021
2
Aviation 84.0 in 2019 90.2 79.6 (5) % 63.0 4 tCOe/million rpk IEA NZE 2021
2
Automotive 191.5 in 2019 170.1 152.4 (20) % 66.0 tCOe/million vkm IEA NZE 2021
2
Thermal coal mining 4.7 in 2020 1.44 N/A N/A (70)%5 Mt COe IEA NZE 2021
2
1 Our absolute and intensity emissions metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector. Emissions
intensity is a weighted average according to the portfolio weight of each investment, as a proportion of the total portfolio value. For oil and gas; and power and
utilities, the baseline, progress and target figures represent combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions. For cement; iron, steel and aluminium;
aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining, the baseline, progress and target figures represent on-balance sheet financed emissions. For the aviation and
automotive sectors, the target figure is unchanged while the 2022 figure represents restated on-balance sheet financed emissions. For thermal coal mining, the
target is unchanged while the 2020 baseline figure has been re-baselined.
2 For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’); for the power and utilities sector, intensity
2
is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour (‘tCOe/GWh’); for the cement sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide
2
equivalent per tonne of cement (‘tCOe/t cement’); for the iron, steel and aluminium sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne
2
of metal (‘tCOe/t metal’); for the aviation sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million revenue passenger kilometres (‘tCOe/
2 2
million rpk’); for the automotive sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million vehicle kilometres ('tCOe/million vkm’); and for the
2
thermal coal mining sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt COe’).
2
3 While the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership Technology
Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses.
4 Our aviation unit includes passenger and cargo tonnes, converted into revenue passenger kilometre (‘rpk‘), to align with our target pathway. This is comparable to
revenue tonne kilometre ('rtk') using a 100kg per passenger conversion factor as we already include belly and dedicated cargo in our production figures. The
conversion factor changed from 95kg per passenger used in the baseline disclosure to align with industry practice.
5 The thermal coal mining scope differs from the other sectors. We include solely emissions from thermal coal production and coal power generation, rather than
the total emissions of a counterparty within a sector, to reflect the thermal coal mining absolute financed emissions reduction target.
52 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
We plan to report financed emissions and Consistent with the PCAF guidance on looking basis as we progress towards our
progress against our targets annually, and to financed emissions accounting, we only 2030 targets. In addition, for the intensity-
be transparent in our disclosures about the consider the outstanding drawn financing based sectors, the emissions intensity is
methodologies applied and any challenges or amount given this has a direct link to real sensitive to material clients and changes to
dependencies. However, financed emissions economy emissions. drawn balances year-on-year can therefore
figures may not be reconcilable or influence the trend.
A number of clients have material undrawn
comparable year-on-year in future, and
balances that, if drawn, could significantly We continue to engage with and support our
baselines and targets may require updates or
increase the financed emissions related to clients in their decarbonisation journey by
revisions as data, methodologies and
those clients. We expect to assess how to providing financing and advisory services.
reference scenarios develop.
manage these exposures on a forward-
Oil and gas In 2023, absolute combined on-balance sheet Oil and gas 2023 progress
For the oil and gas sector, our analysis financed and facilitated emissions in our Mt COe from baseline
2
included scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, portfolio decreased by 46% to 23.2 million (46) %
including carbon dioxide and methane, for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt
upstream and integrated companies. Our COe’) relative to the 2019 baseline, and by
2
baseline and progress figures reflect 27% from 2022 to 2023. The reduction was
combined on-balance sheet financed and due to divestments and other strategic
facilitated emissions. decisions, and temporary factors such as low
loan drawdown levels, and subdued capital
We have set a target to reduce absolute
markets activity.
combined on-balance sheet financed and
facilitated emissions for our oil and gas A return to market conditions with clients
portfolio by 34% by 2030 relative to our 2019 increasing capital markets activity, or other
baseline. This is consistent with a global factors that could lead to clients drawing
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA down existing loans, will lead to increased
NZE 2021 scenario. financed emissions in our portfolio. Based on
Dealogic data, capital markets activity for the
We show in the chart our progress to date
sector increased by more than 15% in 2024
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
compared with 2023.
2030 figure derived from the updated IEA
NZE 2024 scenario, which suggests a 30%
reduction relative to the 2019 baseline.
e2OCtM
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Power and utilities decarbonise mobility, buildings and industry.
Power and utilities 2023 progress
For the power and utilities sector, our Our target is consistent with a global 1.5°C- tCOe/GWh from baseline
2
analysis included scope 1 and 2 emissions for aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA NZE
(32) %
upstream power generation, and diversified 2021 scenario.
utilities power generation companies. We
We show in the chart our progress to date
focused on power generation companies
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
because they control sector output, which
2030 figure of 194.6 tCOe/GWh derived
has the most material emissions impact in 2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario. the real economy. Our baseline and progress
figures reflect combined on-balance sheet In 2023, the combined on-balance sheet
financed and facilitated emissions.
financed and facilitated emissions intensity in
our portfolio decreased by 32% to 349.0
We target a combined on-balance sheet
tCOe/GWh relative to the 2019 baseline, and
financed and facilitated emissions intensity of 2
by 12% from 2022 to 2023. This reduction
138 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per
was driven by an increase in the financing of gigawatt hour (‘tCOe/GWh’) by 2030. We
2 renewable energy projects and companies,
have chosen an intensity-based target as
and a decrease in the financing of high electricity demand is expected to more than
emissions intensity clients.
double by 2050, due to both population
growth and electrification required to
hWG/e2OCt
700
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 53
ESG
review
Financed emissions continued
Cement including clinker substitution, alternative fuel Cement 2023 progress
For the cement sector, our analysis included use such as bioenergy, and carbon capture tCOe/t cement from baseline
2
scope 1 and 2 emissions for midstream use and storage. Carbon capture use and (8) %
companies with clinker and cement storage is a nascent technology and is
manufacturing facilities. currently applied at around 45 facilities
worldwide with a capture capacity of roughly
We target an on-balance sheet financed 50 MtCO per year. This is short of IEA NZE
emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of carbon 2
scenarios, which lay out a pathway of around
dioxide equivalent per tonne of cement
1 Gt CO per year captured and stored by (‘tCOe/t cement’) by 2030, using 2019 as our 2
2 2030. Several cement sector customers are
baseline. Our target is consistent with a
making progress in carbon capture use and global 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by
storage and are launching their first carbon
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario.
capture use and storage pilot projects.
We show in the chart our progress to date
The 2023 emissions intensity of our portfolio,
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the at 0.59 tCOe/t cement, was 8% lower than
2030 figure of 0.47 tCOe/t cement derived 2
2 the 2019 baseline. It was also down by 17%
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario.
in 2023 from 2022. The decline in 2023 was
mainly attributable to improvements in the
While some emissions reductions can be
availability of emissions and production data
achieved through energy efficiency, we
across a number of emissions-intensive
believe that to significantly reduce fuel and
clients. Emissions intensity trends are highly
process emissions from cement
sensitive to material client exposures and
manufacturing, and to meet our targets,
changes to drawn balances year-on-year.
large-scale investments are required in new
production processes and technologies,
tnemec
t/e2OCt
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
2019 2020 2021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Iron, steel and aluminium from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, and
Iron, steel and aluminium 2023 progress
For the iron, steel and aluminium sector, we of 1.43 tCO2e/t metal from the MPP Tech tCOe/t metal from baseline
2
covered scope 1 and 2 for midstream iron, Moratorium scenario. The MPP Tech
17 %
steel and aluminium production in our Moratorium scenario confines investments to
analysis. We intend to address our coverage near zero emissions technologies from 2030
of aluminium in future disclosures due to the onwards, and assumes no assets are
low materiality in our portfolio, as well as prematurely retired. It projects a slower
volatility caused by the greater emissions transition than IEA NZE scenarios in the near
intensity of aluminium production, compared term due to the use of different assumptions
to iron and steel. for steel production, steelmaking technology
mix, steel emissions intensity, and use of
We target an on-balance sheet financed
hydrogen in steelmaking.
emissions intensity of 1.05 tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalent per tonne of metal (‘tCOe/ The emissions intensity of our portfolio in
2
t metal’) by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline. 2023 rose by 17% to 2.1 tCOe/t metal
2
Our target is consistent with a global 1.5°C- against our 2019 baseline, due to aluminium
aligned pathway for iron and steel, as defined sector exposures impacting the overall
by the IEA NZE 2021 scenario. Meeting the sector’s emissions intensity in 2023, and a
2030 target will be technologically challenging low baseline figure resulting from a higher
as this is a particularly hard-to-abate sector. mix of low emissions-intensive steel clients.
Emissions intensity dropped by 16% in 2023
We show in the chart our progress to date
versus 2022 due to the reduced exposure to
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
aluminium clients, and a larger mix of low
2030 figure of 1.29 tCO2e/t metal derived
emissions-intensive clients.
latem
t/e2OCt
ESG review | Environment
3
2.5
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
2019 2020 2021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) Tech Moratorium
54 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
Aviation reduce emissions. The adoption of
Aviation 2023 progress
For the aviation sector, we included sustainable aviation fuel is in its infancy, tCOe/million rpk from baseline
2
passenger airlines’ scope 1 and aircraft currently accounting for an estimated 0.3% of
(5) %
lessors‘ scope 3 downstream emissions. We global jet fuel production. Sustainable aviation
excluded military and dedicated cargo flights fuel use needs to increase to 15% by 2030 to
as the emissions intensity of such cargo be in line with the IEA NZE 2021. This
flights is different to that of passenger requires a significant ramp-up of investment
airlines. This approach is in line with industry in production capacity and supportive policies,
practice to ensure consistency of financed such as fuel taxes and low carbon fuel
emissions measurement and target setting. standards.
We target an on-balance sheet financed The industry is also adopting the unit of
emissions intensity of 63 tonnes of carbon revenue tonne kilometre (‘rtk’) to take into
dioxide equivalent per million revenue account the transport of cargo for airlines in-
passenger kilometres (‘tCOe/million rpk’) by scope of the target. We plan to consider this
2
2030, using 2019 as our baseline. Our target unit change to rtk in future disclosures to
is consistent with a global 1.5°C-aligned better reflect the industry standard. We
pathway, as defined by the IEA NZE 2021 already include passenger and cargo tonnes
scenario. in our production figures.
We show in the chart our progress to date In 2023, the emissions intensity of our
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the portfolio fell by 5% to 79.6 tCOe/million rpk
2
2030 figure of 70.3 tCOe/million rpk derived relative to the 2019 baseline and was down
2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario. by 12% from the 2022 restated emissions
intensity. This decline was largely driven by
To meet our target, we believe the sector
improved data quality, higher exposure to
needs significant policy support, investments
lower emissions-intensive airlines compared
in alternative fuels, such as sustainable
with the sector average, and improved
aviation fuel, and new efficient aircraft to
operational efficiency with the return to pre-
Covid air traffic activity levels.
kpr
noillim/e2OCt
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Automotive Meeting our target is heavily dependent on
Automotive 2023 progress
For the automotive sector, we looked at the share of new electric vehicle sales our tCOe/million vkm from baseline
2
scopes 1 and 2 for midstream manufacturing clients will achieve in 2030, including battery
(20) %
of vehicles, and scope 3 for tank-to-wheel and plug-in electric vehicles. BloombergNEF
exhaust pipe emissions for light-duty estimates that the electric vehicle share of
vehicles. We excluded heavy-duty vehicles sales in 2024 exceeded 20%, however this is
from our analysis as the target pathway below the 27% implied by the IEA NZE 2021
derived from the IEA excludes them, as they scenario based on HSBC analysis.
have a different decarbonisation pathway
Achieving our 2030 financed emissions target
relative to light-duty vehicles. This approach
will be challenging unless there is a strong
reflects a change from previous disclosures
acceleration in the share of electric vehicle
to only include tailpipe emissions instead of
sales. This will require large-scale
all scope 3 categories, in order to be
investments in new electric vehicle and
consistent with the target scenario reference
battery manufacturing plants, alongside
pathway and industry practice. We will
widespread charging infrastructure, and
consider including heavy-duty vehicle
government policies to support electric
manufacturers as well as heavy-duty vehicle
vehicles. production at a later stage of our analysis, as
data and methodologies develop.
The 2023 emissions intensity of our portfolio
dropped by 20% to 152.4 tCOe/million vkm We target an on-balance sheet financed 2
against our 2019 baseline, and by 10%
emissions intensity of 66 tonnes of carbon
versus the restated emissions intensity of our
dioxide equivalent per million vehicle
portfolio for 2022, which excludes non-
kilometres (‘tCOe/million vkm’) by 2030
2 tailpipe scope 3 emissions. The decline
using 2019 as our baseline. This is in line with
against baseline was driven by changes in our
a global 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by
loan book resulting primarily from credit-led
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, modified to
business decisions. From 2022 to 2023, the
match the share of new in-year vehicle sales
reduction was driven by a portfolio mix with
for light-duty vehicles.
lower emissions intensity clients, and lower
We show in the chart our progress to date exposures to carbon-intensive clients.
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the
2030 figure of 66.2 tCOe/million vkm derived
2
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario,
which remains close to the 2030 target figure
of 66.0 under the 2021 scenario.
mkv
noillim/e2OCt
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
2019 20202021 20222023 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 55
ESG
review
Financed emissions continued
Thermal coal mining We show in the chart our progress to date
Thermal coal mining 2022 progress
For the thermal coal mining sector, our against our 2030 target. We also indicate the Mt COe from baseline
2
analysis focused on scope 1, 2 and 3 2030 figure of 2.7 Mt COe derived from the
2 (69) %
emissions in upstream companies, including updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, which
those involved in extraction. When calculating suggests a 42% reduction relative to the re-
our financed emissions from thermal coal baselined 2020 figure.
mining, we focused on thermal coal
In 2021, absolute on-balance sheet financed extraction and processing companies, and
emissions decreased by 71% to 1.38 Mt diversified mining companies. The majority of
COe relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure.
our reported financed emissions relate to 2
In 2022, the absolute on-balance sheet
scope 3 emissions associated with coal
financed emissions of our portfolio decreased mining, representing financing provided to
by 69% to 1.44 Mt COe relative to the re-
large conglomerates that own diversified 2
baselined 2020 figure, and they rose by 4%
business interests including coal.
from 2021 to 2022. The reduction from the
We have set a target to reduce our absolute on- 2020 re-baselined figure was due to strategic
balance sheet financed emissions by 70% by decisions and temporary factors, such as low
2030, relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure of loan drawdown levels.
4.7 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
(‘Mt COe’). We used 2020 as a baseline to align A return to normal market conditions with
2
with the baseline used for our drawn balance clients drawing down existing loans will lead
exposure targets in our thermal coal phase-out to increased financed emissions in our
policy. Our target is consistent with a global portfolio.
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA
NZE 2021 scenario.
e2OC
tM
ESG review | Environment
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
On-balance sheet financed emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of on-balance sheet financed emissions using 2022 and 2023 data. For thermal coal
mining, we disclosed in 2023 our 2020 baseline, which has been re-baselined as described on page 51, and we now present figures for 2021
and 2022. The PCAF data quality scores across most sectors improved in 2023 due to better data availability.
On-balance sheet financed emissions – wholesale credit lending and project finance1,2
PCAF data quality score3
Scope 1–2 Scope 3 Emissions
Sector Year (Mt CO 2 e) (Mt CO 2 e) intensity Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
2022 1.3 16.2 N/A 3.2 3.2
Oil and gas
2023† 1.6 15.2 N/A 2.4 2.7
2022 7.6 N/A 401.7 3.3 N/A
Power and utilities
2023† 7.3 N/A 349.6 3.1 N/A
2022 4.5 N/A 0.71 2.9 N/A
Cement
2023† 6.3 N/A 0.59 2.3 N/A
2022 2.7 N/A 2.5 3.0 N/A
Iron, steel and aluminium
2023† 1.8 N/A 2.1 2.9 N/A
2022 3.3 0.15 90.2 3.2 2.4
Aviation
2023† 2.6 0.21 79.6 3.1 2.6
2022 0.11 4.0 170.1 2.7 3.4
Automotive
2023† 0.12 6.0 152.4 2.2 3.2
2021† 0.05 1.33 N/A 3.1 3.1
Thermal coal mining
2022† 0.07 1.37 N/A 3.1 3.1
Facilitated emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of facilitated emissions using 2022 and 2023 data for the oil and gas, and the power
and utilities sectors.
Applying a 100% weighting, the oil and gas values for scope 1 to 3 emissions decreased from 15.2 Mt COe in 2022 to 9.0 Mt COe in 2023.
2 2
For the power and utilities sector, the values for scope 1 and 2 emissions rose from 3.8 Mt COe in 2022 to 4.6 Mt COe in 2023. For all 100%-
2 2
weighted facilitated values, please refer to the ESG Data Pack4.
Facilitated emissions – ECM, DCM and syndicated loans (33% weighting)
PCAF Data quality score3
Scope 1-2 Scope 3 Emissions
Sector Year4 (Mt COe) (Mt COe) intensity Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
2 2
2022 0.36 4.7 N/A 3.3 3.3
Oil and gas
2023† 0.27 2.7 N/A 2.1 2.5
2022 1.2 N/A 358.7 2.9 N/A
Power and utilities
2023† 1.5 N/A 322.2 2.6 N/A
1 The total amount of short-term finance excluded for the thermal coal mining sector was 0.04% and 0.1% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021
and 31 December 2022 respectively; in 2023, for all other sectors, it was 0.7% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2023.
2 The total loans and advances analysed for the thermal coal mining sector were 0.1% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021 and 31 December
2022, respectively. For all other sectors in 2023, the total loans and advances analysed were 2.7% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2023. The
total loans and advances analysed for the purpose of the financed emissions calculation and reporting have not been adjusted for assets held for sale.
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based on financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 The total capital markets activity analysed applying a 100% weighting in 2023 was $10.4.bn, representing 3.3% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2023.
† Data is subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with ISAE 3000 / ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal
Coal Exposures Methodology and the independent third-party limited assurance report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-
business/esg-reporting-centre.
56 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Financed emissions continued
Reducing emissions in our assets under management
HSBC Asset Management continues to work The Partnership for Carbon Accounting Our financed emissions metrics
towards its interim target1 of reducing scope 1 Financials (PCAF)2 recommends that financial As at 31 December 2023, the scope 1 and 2
and 2 financed emissions intensity by 58% institutions should, in line with the financed emissions intensity of HSBC Asset
between 2019 and 2030 for its in scope assets Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Management’s in scope assets stood at 69.8
under management (AUM), consisting of listed Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting tCO 2 e/M$ invested. The PCAF data quality
equities and corporate fixed income managed Standard requirement, establish a restatement score for our 31 December 2023 financed
within its major investment hubs. As of 31 policy to ensure consistency, comparability emissions intensity was 2.63.
December 2019, in scope assets amounted to and relevance of the reported greenhouse gas
$193.9bn, equating to 38% of global AUM. emissions data over time. HSBC Asset
Management has defined an internal financed
2019 re-baselined metrics emissions re-baseline and restatement
In 2024, we improved our methodology for
framework which adapts HSBC Group’s
calculating financed emissions intensity,
approach and defines relevant circumstances
including a revised mapping logic for issuers’
for HSBC Asset Management.
carbon intensity and EVIC (enterprise value
including cash) data. We have re-baselined our
2019 intensity figure due to an error in the data
mapping and it is now 124 tCOe/M$ invested
2
versus 131 tCOe/M$ invested reported in the
2
Annual Report and Accounts 2022,
representing a decrease of 5.6%.
Reported metrics3 2019 2023 Unit
Scope 1 and 2 financed emissions intensity 124.0* 69.8 tCOe/M$ invested
2
AUM in scope 193.9 223.0 Billions $
PCAF Data Quality Score 2.63 2.63
*indicates that this metric has been re-baselined
1 Our targets remain subject to consultation with stakeholders including investors and fund boards on whose behalf we manage the assets. The 58% target is based
on assumptions for financial markets and other data, including the IEA Net Zero emissions by 2050 scenario and its underlying activity growth assumptions.
Carbon emissions intensity is measured as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million USD invested (tCOe/M$ invested), where emissions are scaled by
2
enterprise values including cash.
2 PCAF defines and develops greenhouse gas accounting standards for financial institutions. Its Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for Financed
Emissions provides detailed methodological guidance to measure and disclose financed emissions. PCAF Standards are available at: https://
carbonaccountingfinancials.com/standard.
3 The re-baselined 2019 financed emissions intensity metric, and 2023 metrics were subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, and
with respect to the greenhouse emissions, in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on
Greenhouse Gas Statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. For the independent third-party’s limited assurance report, see
http://www.assetmanagement.hsbc.com/net-zero. The methodology used is available at: http://www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/attachments/
common/creating-a-new-climate-for-change/financed-emissions-disclosures-reporting-criteria.pdf.
Boosting the offshore wind industry in the UK
SeAH Wind Ltd is developing a new offshore wind technology manufacturing facility in
Teesside, North-East England. The factory is seeking to make a significant contribution to the
offshore wind industry and play an important role in addressing the growing global demand for
renewable energy.
Building on previous financing in 2023, we acted as mandated lead arranger and lender for a
$282m loan to SeAH Wind Ltd, with guarantees provided by UK Export Finance and the Korea
Trade Insurance Corporation, bringing total financing arranged by HSBC for the project to
$740m.
The proceeds will be used to support the ongoing construction and expansion of the new UK
manufacturing facility, helping the company grow through its extended product range for
offshore wind.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 57
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Net zero in our own operations TCFD
As described on page 15, we have revisited Our biggest challenge continues to be the In 2024 we incorporated an additional supply
our ambition to achieve net zero in our own limited availability of power purchase chain data source to complement data from
operations and supply chain by 2030 and are agreements and green tariffs in some of our CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project).
now focused on actions to cut emissions markets due to regulations. We continue to We continue to improve the measurement,
across these areas as part of our overall expand our network of experts in the quality and reporting of our supply chain
ambition to become net zero by 2050. renewables space to help us identify emissions data to generate insights to drive
opportunities globally. targeted reduction activities. We have
Reduce, replace and remove engaged with our 300 highest-emitting
Our guiding approach is, and will continue to Business travel suppliers to collaborate and identify
be to reduce, replace and remove emissions We have analysed our travel patterns to
emissions reduction opportunities based on
from our own operations and supply chain. identify areas where we can continue to
supplier maturity levels.
We plan to first focus on reducing carbon reduce emissions. For example, we have
emissions from consumption, and then introduced internal regional reduction targets In October 2024 we convened our first
replace remaining emissions with low-carbon and emission information at the point of Supply Chain Decarbonisation Day to facilitate
alternatives in line with the Paris Agreement. booking to encourage ownership and in-depth discussion and the development of
We will reduce emissions through the flexibility in decision making. joint action plans with some of our largest
purchase of 100% renewables and plan to suppliers in the technology, professional
add investments in sustainable aviation fuel Engaging with our supply chain services and real estate sectors, to help drive
Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our
to replace traditional fuel and reduce emissions reduction. In 2025, we will hold a
operational emissions and is the area in
emissions from our travel over time. similar event with different suppliers.
which we face the most significant
Altogether, across our operations, business
travel and supply chain, we expect to achieve decarbonisation challenge. When we set our Focus on natural resources
ambition in 2020, we did so without detailed We aim to be a responsible consumer of
a reduction of around 40% in emissions by
supply chain data. natural resources across our operations and
2030. In line with current guidance, we
supply chain. Wherever possible, through our
expect to only use carbon credits to remove
It has become clear that progress in reducing
procurement choices, design and
emissions when it is not possible to directly
emissions in our supply chain is proving
construction, or operations, we aim to protect
reduce or replace. However, recognising the
slower than we anticipated, mainly driven by
the environment and mitigate our impact on
importance of high quality carbon removals in
the slower pace of the transition across the
the depletion of natural resources. Our main
limiting global temperature rises, we have
real economy. Many suppliers are still in the
focus areas are waste, paper and sustainable
started to explore some high integrity carbon
early phase of their decarbonisation journey,
diets.
removal projects.
do not have sufficient insight into their own
emissions footprint, and have not set Our presence in environmentally sensitive
Our energy consumption
In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in decarbonisation targets. We have stepped up areas
targeted efforts to support decarbonisation Our global portfolio of buildings supports
our energy consumption compared with 2019
across our supply chain. customers and communities in areas that
(2023: 26.3%).This has been achieved
may be of high or very high water stress, and/
through optimising the use of our real estate
We aim to deepen collaboration with
or protected areas of biodiversity.
portfolio and carrying out a reduction in our
suppliers and increase our focus on those
office space and data centres. We continue
without public disclosures or emissions About 50% of our global offices, branches
to optimise our assets to ensure greater
reduction plans, supporting them through and data centres are located mainly in urban
efficiency and capitalise on new energy
education and incentivisation. We will build or city centre locations with large,
technologies. In 2024 we increased our
partnerships with larger suppliers to drive concentrated populations. These areas have
purchase of electricity from renewable
change in shared supply chains through been identified as being subject to high and
sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This
scaled solutions, including through industry very high water stress, accounting for 49% of
included increasing our coverage of green
initiatives. our annual water consumption and about
tariffs in India and mainland China.
0.8% are in protected areas of biodiversity.
Renewable electricity can help unlock our
We have implemented consumption
emissions reduction potential, and we aim to
reduction measures, including installation of
achieve 100% renewable electricity across
water efficient taps, flow restrictors, auto-
our own operations by 2030.
taps and low or zero flush sanitary fittings.
Our environmental and sustainability management policies
Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary across
geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported by Corporate
Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management, seeking to ensure that
HSBC’s properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on the environment.
Detailed design considerations documented in our global engineering standards aim to reduce or
avoid depletion of critical resources, such as energy, water, land and raw materials. Suppliers are
required to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct and have in place environmental policies
appropriate to the size and nature of their operations to reduce environmental impacts.
58 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Net zero in our own operations continued
2024 Emissions performance Energy and travel greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e3
We are making progress towards our updated
2050 net zero ambition. In 2024 we achieved a 2024 2023 2019 baseline
reduction in absolute operational greenhouse Scope 11 Ä 15,025 16,918 22,066
gas emissions (energy and business travel) of
66.1% from our 2019 baseline. Overall, Scope 2 (market-based)1 Ä 83,760 167,174 392,270
including supply chain emissions, we achieved a Scope 3 ~ 1,127,909 1,113,498 1,356,631
30.7% reduction against 2019 and 5.5% Category 1: Purchased goods and services1,2 Ä 866,873 880,494 1,033,972
compared with 2023. Category 2: Capital goods1,2 ~ 127,158 123,763 50,651
Emissions from our energy Category 6: Business travel1 ~ 133,878 109,241 272,008
We are currently on track to reduce our scope 1 Ä
Total 1,226,693 1,297,590 1,770,967
and 2 emissions by more than 90% by 2030
Ä
compared with our 2019 baseline. In 2024, we Included Scope 1 and 2 of UK 5,887 5,909 10,432
reduced these emissions (including energy and 1 Data in 2024 is subject to an independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with the
road fleet) to 98,785 tonnes CO2e, representing International Standard on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse
a 76.2% reduction from our 2019 baseline and a Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting Guidance 2024 and third-party limited
46.3% reduction from 2023, helped by further assurance report at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. In
respect of data in 2019 and 2023, see our relevant Annual Report and Accounts.
efficiency measures and portfolio reductions, and
2 Supply chain emissions are calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry
an increase in renewable electricity procurement average emissions factors. A data quality score is applied to this calculation where 1 is high and 4 is
to 75.4%, up from 58.4% in 2023. low, based on the quality of emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC
supplier spend. Data quality scores can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
Emissions from travel 3 Data is based on the 12-month period to 30 September.
We reduced our emissions from scope 3 For further details of our methodologies, our independent third-party limited assurance reports and
business travel by 50.8% compared with relevant environment key facts, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
2019 with travel volumes remaining well Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e Energy consumption in kWh in 000s
below pre-pandemic levels, although per FTE
emissions increased by 22.6% compared
with 2023 as travel behaviours normalise
2024 2023 2019 2024 2023 2019
gradually across the bank.
Scope 1, 2 and Ä Ä
Emissions from our supply chain 3 (Category 6) 1.1 1.3 2.9 Total 728,890 772,736 1,049,072
In 2024, we reduced our supply chain emissions Scope 1, 2 and
Ä Ä
by 8.4% against the restated 2019 baseline 3 (Category 1, 2
emissions, while compared with 2023, they and 6) 5.7 5.9 7.8 UK only 206,028 209,939 281,271
remained relatively stable, with a small reduction
Reporting Previously Percentage
of 1.0%. This was mainly driven by suppliers
Revisions metrics reported Restated metrics change
providing real estate-related services and financial
2019 2023 2019 2023 2019 2023
services, while emissions from suppliers of
technology-related goods and services have Category 1:
Purchased Goods and
increased, due to an increase in their investments
Services tonnes CO2e 829,635 859,256 1,033,972 880,494 25 % 2 %
(e.g. data centres), growth of new services (e.g.
cloud and AI) and increase in our spend. Category 2: Capital
Goods tonnes CO2e 37,617 121,783 50,651 123,763 35 % 2 %
In 2024 we also expanded the calculation scope Total Supply chain tonnes CO2e 867,252 981,039 1,084,623 1,004,257 25 % 2 %
by including two additional markets with third
party spend. We continue to widen our Energy consumption kWh in 000s 913,556 n/a 1,049,072 n/a 15 % n/a
reporting as more emissions and spend data are
added to the procurement scope. We apply reviewed and updated emission uplift counterparty emissions. For further details, see
rates to reflect uncertainty concerning the our GHG Reporting Guidance at
Emissions calculations approach
quality and coverage of emission measurement www.hsbc.com/esg
Our emissions report adheres to the
and estimation. This approach is consistent with
Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Protocol, which In 2024 we conducted a materiality
both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
incorporates the scope 2 market-based assessment on upstream scope 3 categories,
Change’s Good Practice Guidance and
emissions methodology. We report GHG and we have identified categories 1
Uncertainty Management in National
emissions associated with the energy used in (purchased goods and services), 2 (capital
Greenhouse Gas Inventories and our internal
our premises and employees’ business travel goods), and 6 (business travel) as material.
analysis.
and our supply chain in tonnes of CO2
equivalent. As a financial services organisation, Our calculation methodology for supply chain Our approach to re-baselines and
carbon dioxide is the main type of GHG emissions follows the spend-based method restatements
applicable to our operations, however, our under the GHG protocol; a combination of We re-baselined our 2019 and restated our 2023
current reporting also incorporates methane and supplier emissions data and industry averages. supply chain metrics in line with our emissions
nitrous oxide for completeness, although We source actual data via CDP, or direct re-baseline and restatement policy (see page
deemed immaterial. engagement with suppliers, and in the absence 51). As referenced above, in 2024, we made the
decision to amend the methodology. We also
of this we use estimations from a new data
Based on our operational control boundary, in identified an error in the mapping of industry
provider and then industry average carbon
2024 we collected data on energy use and averages. In addition, we have identified an
intensities from CDP to estimate supply chain
business travel for our operations in 34 countries error in our 2019 metric disclosed in our ARA
emissions.
and territories out of the 58 markets we operate 2023 for total energy consumption, which we
in, which accounted for approximately 97.7% of As more of our suppliers report their emissions, have now restated.
our full-time equivalent staff (‘FTEs’). To estimate we should be able to include more accurate data
the emissions of our operations in entities where and fewer industry averages in the calculation. We are conducting a review of our controls
we have operational control and a small We have applied a data quality score to the related to these items and aim to enhance
them accordingly.
presence, we scale up the emissions to 100%. sources of data we used to determine
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 59
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Managing climate risk TCFD
Climate risk relates to the financial and non- Our material exposure to climate risk relates In the table below, we set out our duties to
financial impacts that may arise as a result of to wholesale and retail client financing activity our stakeholders in our four most material
climate change and the move to a net zero within our banking portfolio. We are also roles.
economy. We manage climate risk across all exposed to climate risk in relation to asset
our businesses and are incorporating climate ownership by our insurance business and For further details of our approach to climate
risk, see ‘ESG risk’ on page 133 and ‘Climate
considerations within our traditional risk types employee pension plans. Our clients are
risk’ on page 219.
in line with our Group-wide risk management exposed to climate-related investment risk in
framework. our asset management business.
Banking Employee pensions Asset management Insurance
We manage the climate risk in our Our pension plans have fiduciaries Climate risk management is a key We consider climate risk in the
banking portfolios through our risk to manage climate risk in line with feature of our investment decision management of our shareholder
appetite and policies for financial their duties towards members making and portfolio management and policyholder portfolio of
and non-financial risks. under local regulatory approach. assets.
requirements.
Climate risk
This enables us to identify We monitor climate risk exposure We also engage with companies ESG factors are incorporated into
opportunities to support our internally for our largest plans on topics related to climate investment analysis to evaluate
customers, while continuing to based on asset sector allocation change. climate risk impacts, as well as
meet stakeholder expectations. and carbon emissions data where the ongoing monitoring during the
available. investment cycle.
Banking As part of its stewardship activities, HSBC The Scheme reports its carbon emissions for
Our banking business is well positioned to Asset Management engages on climate its equity and corporate bond mandates in its
support our customers managing their own change issues with investee companies on a annual TCFD Report and will seek to widen
climate risk through financing. For our most priority list, as defined in its Stewardship the coverage of its assessment and reporting
material wholesale customers, we use our Plan. HSBC Asset Management makes over time. In line with the Trustee’s
transition engagement questionnaire to independent engagement decisions in the commitment to good stewardship, the
understand clients’ climate strategies and interests of its clients. Trustee engages its asset managers to
risks. We have set out a suite of policies to ensure that financially material ESG risks are
guide our management of climate risk. We Employee pensions explicitly considered in the investment
The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension
continue to develop our climate risk appetite process.
Scheme (‘the Scheme’), our largest plan with
and metrics to help manage climate
exposures in our wholesale and retail $34bn of assets under management, aims to Insurance
portfolios. We use climate scenario analysis achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions In 2024, our Insurance business enhanced
to gain insights into the long-term effects of across its defined benefit and defined our stress testing modelling capability to
transition and physical risks across our contribution assets by 2050. To help achieve assess the solvency resilience of our
wholesale and retail portfolios (for further this, it is targeting an interim emissions Insurance entities under prescribed climate
details, see page 223). reduction of 50% by 2030, from 2019 levels, scenarios.
for its equity and corporate bond mandates.
Asset management This commitment was made in the context of For further details of the HSBC Asset
Management’s Stewardship Plan, see:
HSBC Asset Management recognises that wider efforts to manage the impact of climate
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/
climate-related risks may impact the change on the Scheme’s investments and
institutional-investor/about-us/responsible-
operational and financial performance of the consequent impact on the financial investing/-/media/files/attachments/uk/policies/
investee companies. The impact of these interests of members. stewardship-plan-uk.pdf
risks will vary depending on characteristics For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK)
such as asset class, sector, business model Pension Scheme’s annual TCFD statements and
and geography. HSBC Asset Management UK Stewardship Code submission, see https://
futurefocus.staff.hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/
continues to integrate climate analysis into its
information-centre/search-documents
actively managed product offerings and seeks
to assess climate-related risks that could
impact investment performance, where
applicable and relevant.
60 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Sustainability risk policies TCFD
Our sustainability risk policies form part of our For clients in scope of our sustainability risk Our energy policy
broader risk management framework and are policies, where we identify activities that Our energy policy covers the broader energy
important mechanisms for managing risks, could cause material negative impacts, we system, including upstream oil and gas, fossil
including delivering our net zero ambition. expect clients to demonstrate that they are fuel power generation, hydrogen, renewables
identifying and mitigating risks responsibly and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and
These policies focus on mitigating
and will look to take required actions as waste-to-energy sectors.
reputational, credit, legal and other risks
outlined in our policies. This may, as
related to our customers’ environmental and The policy seeks to balance three objectives:
appropriate, include conducting enhanced
social impacts. driving down global greenhouse gas
due diligence or applying financing
emissions; enabling an orderly transition that
restrictions. Such instances may require
Our policies builds resilience in the long term; and
additional review and approval by our
Our sustainability risk policies comprise our
supporting a just and affordable transition,
sustainability risk specialists and risk
core net zero-aligned policies – thermal coal
recognising the local realities in all the
committees.
phase-out and energy – and our broader
communities we serve.
sustainability risk policies covering:
For further details of how we manage
agricultural commodities, forestry, mining and sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, see The energy policy was first published in
metals, and World Heritage Sites and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and- December 2022, and is reviewed annually,
Ramsar-designated wetlands. We also apply responsible-business/managing-risk/ with the most recent update in February
the Equator Principles when financing sustainability-risk 2025.
relevant projects.
Governance and implementation For further details of our oil and gas, and power
These policies aim to provide clear signals to Our Group Risk and Compliance function has and utilities financed emissions targets, see the
our customers on our risk appetite for certain specialists who review and support 'Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed
activities. implementation of our sustainability risk emissions on page 52.
policies. Our relationship managers are For further details of our energy policy, see
We continue to review policy implementation primarily responsible for assessing relevant www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/managing-risk/
as we apply our sustainability risk policies in considerations under our risk management
sustainability-risk.
practice, and our operationalisation of such framework, including whether our clients may
policies continues to be enhanced. We take a be in scope of applicable sustainability risk
risk-based approach when identifying policies. They are supported by sustainability
transactions and clients to which our risk managers for management of risks as
sustainability risk policies apply and, where outlined in the policies. Where considered
relevant, when reporting on relevant appropriate, policy matters are escalated to
exposures, adopting approaches relevant governance committees.
proportionate to risk and materiality. This Oversight of the development and
helps to focus our efforts on areas where we implementation of policies is the
believe we can help drive meaningful change, responsibility of relevant governance
while taking into account experience from committees comprising senior members of
policy implementation over time. the Group Risk and Compliance function and
global businesses.
We regularly review our policies,
incorporating feedback and building on Biodiversity and natural capital-related
experience from policy implementation over policies
time. We have begun a review of our interim Our sustainability risk policies impose
financed emissions targets and associated restrictions on certain financing activities that
policies as part of the annual review of our may have material negative impacts on
net zero transition plan that we referenced in nature. Our forestry and agricultural
our 3Q24 earnings release in October. commodities policies focus specifically on the
upstream impacts of key agricultural
commodities including palm oil, timber, soy
and cattle. We also require palm oil
customers to obtain certification under the
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 61
ESG
review
ESG review | Environment
Sustainability risk policies continued
Our thermal coal phase-out policy Our basis of preparation for reporting on The chart below sets out our thermal coal
As set out in the thermal coal phase-out thermal coal financing drawn balance financing drawn balance exposure for the
policy, we are committed to phasing out the exposures is aligned with our thermal coal 2020 baseline as well as the exposure figures
financing of thermal coal-fired power and phase-out policy and applies a risk-based for 2021† and 2022†, which were $1bn
thermal coal mining in EU and OECD markets approach to reporting on relevant exposures. (rounded).
by 2030, and globally by 2040. This includes the use of globally recognised
We continue to work on our 2023 and 2024
third-party data sources to screen clients and
Our policy aims to support thermal coal numbers and expect to report on these in
applies materiality considerations to product
phase-out aligned to science-based future disclosures.
type, customer type and exposure type,
timeframes, recognising the different pace
which informs inclusion and exclusion
between advanced and emerging economies. Thermal Coal Financing drawn balance
requirements.
In turn, our policy supports progress towards
exposure1
our financed emissions targets for the power Specifically, for product types, short-term $bn
and utilities and thermal coal mining sectors. lending exposures are excluded from our
thermal coal financing exposures reporting, in 2
The policy was first published in December
line with our financed emissions
2021 and is reviewed annually, with the most
methodology. For customer types, exclusions
recent update in February 2025.
are applied for certain customer types such 1.5
as sovereigns and individuals. For exposure
For further details of our oil and gas, power and
types, a threshold of $15m for drawn
utilities financed emissions target, see the
‘Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed balances is applied for thermal coal financing 1
emissions’ on page 52. exposures reporting.
For our thermal coal phase-out policy, see
www.hsbc.com/-/files/hsbc/our-approach/risk- We recognise that we provide financing to 0.5
and-responsibility/pdfs/240125-hsbc-thermal- groups of connected companies where the
coal-phase-out-policy.pdf. wider group has thermal coal exposures, and
this introduces additional complexities when 0
Thermal coal financing exposures estimating thermal coal exposure. In such 2020 2021 2022
We aim to reduce thermal coal financing cases, we consider the nature and the extent
drawn balance exposure from a 2020 of the connections and any restrictions on 1 The reduction is based on estimated underlying
baseline by at least 25% by 2025, and aim to use of financing proceeds to fund the thermal numbers aligned to our refined basis of
reduce it by 50% by 2030. coal activities. preparation.
† Data is subject to independent third-party limited
We continue to refine our basis of preparation assurance, in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE
and have made further enhancements in 3410. For further details, see our Financed
2024 while taking into account experience Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures
Methodology and independent third-party limited
from policy implementation over time.
assurance report, which are available at
Applying our refined basis of preparation did www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
not have a material impact on the thermal
coal financing drawn balance exposure as of
For further details of our approach to financed
31 December 2020. emissions, see ’Our Approach to financed
emissions’ on page 48.
For further details of our Financed Emissions and
Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology, see
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
Asset Management policy
HSBC Asset Management’s Energy and fired power and thermal coal mining For further details of the energy policy, see
Thermal Coal Policies have been developed in (collectively ‘thermal coal’) within the 2030/40 www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/
support of HSBC Group’s net zero ambition. timelines set out in the HSBC Thermal Coal files/attachments/common/energy-policy-en.pdf.
In its capacity as a discretionary investment Phase-Out Policy, and is intended to help For further details of the thermal coal policy, see
manager and under its Energy Policy, HSBC meet the dual objectives of phasing out www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/
Asset Management engages and assesses thermal coal within science-based files/attachments/common/coal-policy-en.pdf.
the transition plans of oil and gas, and power timeframes and of energy transition in more
and utilities issuers responsible for around 70 coal-reliant economies.
per cent of relevant emissions based upon all
The Energy Policy and Thermal Coal Policy
listed equity and corporate fixed income
complement one another and are reviewed at
managed within its major investment hubs.
least annually.
Its Thermal Coal Policy is developed in
support of the transition from thermal coal-
62 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Social
Building inclusion and resilience
We play an active role in opening up a world of opportunity for our customers,
colleagues and communities by connecting across our international networks
to help build a more inclusive and resilient society.
At a glance
Inclusion is key to opening up a world of Employee well-being is essential. We offer all easily. We also provide financial education for
opportunity. It involves a commitment to colleagues a wide range of resources that help our customers.
identifying and addressing barriers that may support their mental, physical and financial
stop people from accessing opportunities well-being so they can thrive in and out of Communities
In 2024, we updated our global philanthropy
because of who they are or where they are work. We are working to ensure that our
strategy to align with our ESG areas of focus –
from. offices, branches and digital spaces are
‘transition to net zero’ and ‘building inclusion
accessible.
Inclusion goes hand in hand with resilience. and resilience’, allowing us to work alongside
We aim to help people build the capabilities Customers the communities we operate within to help
they need to achieve their goals and to deal We are committed to helping our customers create change.
with the challenges they face, so we are access the financial services they need. They
We believe that fostering inclusion and
focused on delivering products, services and should not find it more difficult to access
building resilience helps us to create long-term
education that support our colleagues, finance because of their gender, ethnicity,
value and growth. By removing unnecessary
customers and communities. sexual orientation, neurodiversity or disability.
barriers and striving to be a fair and equitable
Our ambition is to create a welcoming,
Colleagues inclusive and accessible banking experience organisation, we can attract and retain the best
We believe that an inclusive, healthy and talent, support a wider customer base to
for all our customers.
rewarding workplace helps the whole Group achieve their goals and stimulate growth in our
succeed. We are focused on inclusive hiring so We build resilience by creating products and communities.
we can help ensure our colleagues – and services that simplify the banking experience,
particularly our leadership – are representative so customers can manage their wealth more
of the communities we serve.
In this section
Our commitment Our approach to inclusion We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive Page 64
to inclusion environment that reflects our customers and communities.
Fostering a diverse Page 65
environment
Fostering an inclusive Page 66
culture
Building a healthy Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group Operating Page 67
workplace Committee and the Board.
Being a great place to We aim to create a great workplace that will help in attracting, retaining and Page 68
work motivating our colleagues so they can deliver for our customers across
countries and territories.
Developing skills, Learning and skills We energise our colleagues for growth and build resilience by equipping Page 70
careers and development them with skills that they need today and preparing them to meet future
opportunities challenges.
Building customer Our approach to customer We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers customers can Page 71
inclusion and inclusion and resilience face in accessing financial services.
resilience
Engaging with our Helping to build a more We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a difference to the Page 72
communities inclusive and resilient community and support sustainable growth.
society
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 63
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Our commitment to inclusion
Our approach to inclusion
Our purpose, ‘Opening up a world of We have identified specific Group-wide implementation of our global inclusion
opportunity’, explains why we exist as an priorities, which we track and monitor strategy to help ensure it remains locally
organisation and is the foundation of our progress against. Embracing our unique relevant and compliant with local laws.
global inclusion strategy. international footprint, we adapt
How we hold ourselves to account
We set strategic priorities We monitor progress We are transparent
Our strategic priorities are aligned to three We consistently track and measure We are transparent in sharing our data
public aspirational ambitions, which have performance against our priorities, utilising through external disclosures and we
been created to increase representation of our data capabilities to accurately monitor participate in benchmarking to measure
under-represented groups. In 2024, we progress through: our progress across the industry. In 2024,
continued to make progress against our we:
priorities by: – an inclusion dashboard, which monitors
progress against ambitions and is – ranked as a Top 75 employer in the UK
– achieving a 34.6% representation of reported to the Group Operating Social Mobility Index, improving 30
women in senior leadership roles, with Committee on a quarterly basis; and places to number 37;
an ambition of achieving 35% by 20251;
– review meetings between our Head of – ranked number 3 in the Stonewall
– attaining a 3.0% representation of Black Inclusion and each Group Operating Workplace Equality Index in the UK and
heritage colleagues in senior leadership Committee member to discuss progress maintained our Stonewall Gold standard;
in the UK and US combined, against an against aspirational ambitions and to and
ambition to achieve 3.4% by 20251; and support further progress.
– were awarded an Ambassador Status by
– increasing our Inclusion index as Carers UK.
measured in our Snapshot survey, to
78% against a 2024 target of 75%.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part
of any US-based senior leader performance or
other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where
application of such should not apply under
local law.
We are evidence-led
Our priorities are informed by data, and we continue to enable our colleagues to self-identify across a range of data points that reflect their
personal identity, including ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity and ability.
We have enabled our colleagues to self-identify through our systems and our Snapshot survey, helping us to understand the diverse
composition of our global workforce.
Data availability enables us to embrace our international footprint, set locally-relevant priorities, support under-represented groups and
improve outcomes for our colleagues. In countries and territories where we are able to do so, we invite colleagues to share their data with
us. In 2024, we enabled 93% of our colleagues to disclose their ethnic background, with 67% of colleagues currently choosing to do so,
where this is legally permissible. In certain markets we invite colleagues to share additional characteristics with us, for example, disability or
socio-economic background.
For further details of our representation data, pay gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and
the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Parker Review UK disclosures
The history of our organisation is rooted in multiculturalism, and we remain focused on
embracing the different cultures and perspectives in the communities we serve while
enabling our customers to realise their global ambitions.
HSBC has supported the aims and objectives of the Parker Review and participated in annual
reporting since its formation in 2016.
We are committed to building a diverse workforce that reflects the communities we serve.
98.5% of our UK-based senior leadership population (including our Executive Committee and
their direct reports) have made self-disclosures regarding their ethnic heritage. A total of
17.1% of our senior leadership identify as coming from an ethnic minority background, broadly
aligned to the UK Census representation of 18%.
Our ambition is to ensure we remain reflective of UK Census data.
64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Fostering a diverse environment
Women in senior leadership Black colleagues in senior leadership Gender representation
Increasing female representation in our senior Having a workforce that better reflects the
46.2%
leadership roles is one of our longest- communities we serve remains one of our
Holdings Board
standing strategic priorities. Since achieving strategic priorities. We have an ambition to
53.8%
our ambition of having 30% of senior increase our Black heritage senior leader
leadership positions held by women in 2020, representation in both the UK and US
78.9%
we set a new ambition to reach 35% by combined to 3.4% by 20251. In 2024 we Group
20251. We are on track to meet our 2025 maintained our position at 3.0%. Executives 21.1%
ambition, with 34.6% of senior leadership roles held by women at the end of 2024. Our Previously in 2020, we set our initial ethnicity C G o ro m u b p i ned 68.0%
ambition to double the number of Black
hiring practices are merit-based, and we seek Executives and
to ensure that every candidate, regardless of colleagues in senior leadership roles globally reports1 32.0%
by 20251. While this ambition was not tracked
their identity and background, has an equal
opportunity to demonstrate their skill and through our senior leadership performance Subsidiary 67.2%
potential. A total of 36.8% of all external
scorecards, it remained a strategic priority. directors2
Since 2020, we have increased the 32.8%
appointments into senior positions were
representation of our Black colleagues in
female, compared with 37.7% in 2023. 65.4%
senior leadership by 60%. We have seen a Senior
Women represented 38.0% of all promotions
number of changes to the global footprint of
leadership3
into senior leadership roles in 2024. 34.6%
our business since setting this ambition, and
In 2024, we relaunched our Accelerating despite our efforts so far, we are not making 62.3%
Middle
Women’s Leadership programme, developed the progress towards our ambition as quickly management3
in partnership with Cranfield Business School. as we would like and we are unlikely to 37.7%
The programme aims to strengthen our talent achieve our 2020 ambition by 2025.
pipeline by improving the representation of Junior 50.9%
women in senior leadership roles. It is We remain committed to focusing on the management3
development of our Black heritage 49.1%
designed to increase the visibility, career
colleagues. To address this, we use the
advocacy and network of our high-performing
Solaris programme as a development 48.8%
senior women, ultimately driving engagement All employees
initiative for our UK-based Black heritage
and enhancing leadership capability. In 2024, 51.2%
women. To date, 41 women have completed
we ran two pilot sessions held in the UK and
the programme, with 20% of participants
Hong Kong. We also launched a modified
version of the programme in a US pilot called securing a promotion. Male Female
Accelerating Enterprise Leaders, which also Our immersive development programme, ‘In 1 Combined Group Executives and direct reports
welcomes our male colleagues. includes HSBC Group Executives and their direct
Their Shoes’ was designed to bring to life the
reports (excluding administrative staff) as of 31
lived experiences of minority ethnic
Our Coaching Circles programme, which December 2024.
matches senior leaders with a small group of colleagues, including the challenges they 2 Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies
colleagues to provide advice and support on face. In 2024, the programme was that are included in the Group’s consolidated
the development of leadership skills and recognised as an Outstanding Innovation at financial statements, excluding corporate directors.
the Learning Excellence Awards and was 3 In our leadership structure, we classify senior
network building, welcomed 4,052 women
highly commended in the Global Diversity leadership as those at global career band 3 and
and 4,103 men in 2024.
above; middle management as those at global
Initiative of the Year category at the British
career band 4; and junior management as those
Diversity Awards. Since its launch,12,707
at global career bands 5 and 6.
colleagues have completed the programme.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part of
any US-based senior leader performance or
other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where
application of such should not apply under local
law.
Representation and pay gaps
We publish this data annually to ensure both colleagues with a disability in the UK. This now We are committed to paying colleagues fairly
transparency and a maintained focus on covers approximately 81% of our workforce. In regardless of their gender or ethnicity and have
addressing representation gaps within the 2024, our mean aggregate UK-wide gender pay processes to review that remuneration is free
organisation. Our gender and ethnicity pay gap gap was 40.6% compared with 43.2% in 2023, from bias. We also review our pay practices
reporting shows the difference in average pay and the ethnicity pay gap was 7.7% compared and undertake a pay equity review annually. If
between these two groups of people and the with 4.5% in 2023. Our UK gender pay gap is pay differences are identified that are not due
wider workforce, regardless of role or seniority. driven by several factors, including the shape of to objective, tangible reasons such as
our workforce, where there are more men than performance, skills or experience, we make
We have reported our UK gender
women in senior higher-paid roles and more adjustments.
representation and pay gap data since 2017 in
women than men in junior roles. While we are
line with reporting regulations, and have confident in our approach to pay equity, until For further details of our representation data, pay
voluntarily extended this to include the US, women and ethnic minority colleagues are gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/who-
mainland China, Hong Kong, India, Mexico, proportionately represented across all areas we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and the ESG
Singapore, Malaysia, and the UAE, alongside Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
and levels of the organisation we will continue
ethnicity data for the UK and US. In 2024, we
to see gaps in average pay.
have also extended this to include our
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 65
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Fostering an inclusive culture
Looking to the future and beyond our public Through sponsorship by our non-executive We have also expanded our workplace
commitments, we refreshed our global directors and our Group Operating adjustments programme through our provider
inclusion strategy to refocus our ambitions Committee, we bring together our senior Microlink, with services now available to over
against our strategic priorities, and set out our leaders and colleagues, bringing to life our 44,000 colleagues in India, a 17 percentage
approach to inclusion over the next three to values of ‘valuing difference’ and ‘succeeding point increase compared with 2023.
five years. We have established key together’.
principles that enable us to pivot towards Socio-economic diversity
In 2024, our ERGs led numerous initiatives To better support our colleagues from lower
building a more inclusive culture for all of our
and events including our Pride ERG for socio-economic backgrounds, we have
colleagues.
LGBTQ+ colleagues, who worked with our partnered with the London School of
Our colleagues’ personal sense of belonging Group Benefits team to expand Gender Economics and Progress Together to produce
and psychological safety are two key Dysphoria healthcare benefits in India. a comprehensive framework targeting socio-
measures captured as part of our Inclusion economic mobility in 2024.
Our Ability ERG, for our colleagues with a
Index in the annual Snapshot survey, which
disability, created a framework called ‘Know The ‘VOICE’ is designed to support
we monitor and review by various identities
me Better’, as a tool to help facilitate individuals, people managers, and
that comprise our global workforce. In 2024
conversations between colleagues and line organisations in retaining and advancing
we achieved a score of 78%, which is three
managers regarding a colleague’s disability. colleagues from lower socio-economic
percentage points ahead of our annual
backgrounds within the UK financial services
aspirational goal, and on par with the financial
Our focus on disability sector. The blueprint was developed through
services industry benchmark.
We are dedicated to creating an inclusive
extensive input from professionals across the
culture where all employees, including those
Analysis of our Inclusion index allows us to industry who come from a lower socio-
with disabilities can thrive. Our progress is
measure engagement levels of specific economic background, and they shared their
guided by our Global Disability Council,
colleague groups in greater detail, in particular experiences as part of our qualitative
sponsored by our HSBC UK Chief Executive
different personal identities, to better research. It highlights the biases that can
Officer, with senior leaders across the
understand the experiences of our colleagues impact retention and progression and offers
business meeting every two months.
globally. We found that scores from actionable, evidence-based strategies rooted
colleagues who identify as male and female in behavioural science to drive meaningful
We have launched the second cohort of our
were comparable, at 79% and 77% change.
Career Development Programme for our
respectively, remaining unchanged from
colleagues in middle and junior management
Through our Strive ERG for colleagues who
2023. From an ethnicity perspective, our
with a disability, in partnership with an
come from a lower socio-economic
Black heritage colleagues were two
external coaching provider. In 2024, we
background we have developed internal
percentage points below the Group-wide
launched an international pilot of the
mentoring programmes pairing junior and
average, while our Asian heritage colleagues’
programme in Hong Kong.
senior colleagues for coaching and
results were on a par with the overall score,
development sessions.
at 78%. From a sexual orientation In 2024, stories from our colleagues were
perspective, colleagues who identified as showcased globally as part of our Disability
We have enabled our colleagues in Singapore
LGB+ were one percentage point above the Confidence series. The series leveraged the
to share their socio-economic background.
Group-wide result. power of our colleagues sharing their
experiences, the support they receive, and In 2023, we entered the Social Mobility Index
Our employee resource groups
how this has helped them empower others to for the first time and gained recognition as a
Bringing together the shared identities,
do the same. top 75 employer. We continue to be
values and interests of our colleagues allows
recognised as a top 75 employer, improving
us to build an inclusive culture across the
our rank by 30 places to number 37 in 2024.
organisation and our volunteer-led employee
resource groups (’ERGs’) enable this. Our
ERGs provide insight on key societal issues.
Supporting our colleagues with caring responsibilities
We have found that many of our colleagues are often involved in both their careers and
significant caring responsibilities outside work, and are finding managing both responsibilities
increasingly challenging. In our Snapshot survey nearly 16% of colleagues self-identified as
having caring responsibilities.
In 2024 we launched the Global Carers Charter, which comprises a series of tools, policies
and support available for colleagues with caring responsibilities. Following its launch in the UK,
HSBC’s Global Carers Charter was awarded Ambassador Status by Carers UK.
66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Building a healthy workplace
Listening to our colleagues
We value difference at HSBC, and we do this 2023. Our inclusion index, a key measure of 77% in 2024, up by one percentage point
by seeking out different perspectives and building an inclusive culture at HSBC, from 2023. We recognise that our speak up
listening. Our colleagues succeed together by remained unchanged at 78%, against an culture requires continued focus to ensure
being connected across the organisation, and ambition of maintaining 75%. we create the right environment for our
they take responsibility by speaking up. people. Our Snapshot survey revealed an
We have found that 75% of colleagues have
These activities are core to our values and we increase in colleagues able to state their
said that working conditions enable them to
capture regular feedback from our colleagues opinion without fear of negative
be productive, which is up two percentage
to help improve HSBC and the employee consequences, with 73% of colleagues
points compared with 2023. Despite this,
experience. feeling able to do so, up by one percentage
62% of colleagues report that work
point from 2023.
How we listen processes allow them to work efficiently,
Our annual employee engagement survey is which is down three percentage points We strive to improve awareness and
called ‘Snapshot’ and runs every September. compared with 2023. This remains one of the education around poor behaviours and
It is an opportunity for all employees to share lowest scoring items across the Snapshot strengthen our understanding and response
feedback on what it is like to work at HSBC. survey, particularly across our senior to these issues across all levels of the
leadership population. There are a number of organisation. In 2024, to ensure continued
Our 2024 survey achieved a response rate of
initiatives underway to make it easier for high-quality investigations into conduct
88%, up from 85% in 2023, with more than
colleagues to work efficiently. concerns, we introduced six new investigator
182,000 colleagues choosing to share their
training modules aimed at the Human
views. This high level of participation enables We also run an annual Pay and Benefits
Resources investigator community.
us to share results confidentially across all survey, which in 2024 helped to evaluate
levels of the organisation. Insights from our changes to our performance approach, as Our colleagues continue to receive training on
Snapshot survey are shared with the Group well as capturing ongoing feedback about bullying, harassment, discrimination and
Operating Committee and the Board, and are colleague expectations on compensation and retaliation at least every other year in our
provided directly to more than 11,000 people development in support of our employer Global Mandatory Training curriculum and as
managers with 10 or more responses from value proposition. We complement these part of other learning resources, including in
their teams. We support teams to have good large surveys with continuous lifecycle People Manager training.
conversations about their feedback through feedback from new joiners, internal movers
We have mandatory procedures for handling
the provision of interactive dashboards, action and voluntary leavers.
and investigating employee concerns, which
planning tools and discussion guides.
We are committed to building on our high include those for bullying and harassment.
Our Employee Engagement Index, our key levels of engagement and feedback Cases are continually monitored from our
measure of how people feel about HSBC, has throughout 2025. speak-up channels, and data is reported to
increased to 80%, up three percentage points management committees to ensure there is
compared with 2023. This was the largest For further details of our Snapshot data, see the visibility at leadership level.
ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
increase seen across the Snapshot indices,
In 2024 the bank received a total of 624
and puts us six points ahead of the global
Employee conduct and harassment
concerns raised relating to bullying and
financial services benchmark that we
We expect all our employees to treat each
harassment. Where the concerns were
measure against.
other with respect and dignity, and we do not
substantiated following an investigation,
tolerate or condone discrimination,
Key driver analysis shows engagement is appropriate action was taken, which included
harassment or bullying in any form, as
most influenced by a clear understanding of termination of services where appropriate. In
outlined in our Global Anti-Bullying and
HSBC’s strategic objectives, confidence in 2024, 26% of concerns raised were either
Harassment Code. This is supported by our
the future and our strategy, positivity towards partly or fully substantiated and 34 colleagues
Global Code of Conduct, which helps us to
career and development, and trust and were dismissed in relation to bullying,
maintain high standards across the Group.
confidence in leadership. harassment, discrimination or retaliation.
We encourage our colleagues to speak up
Following significant increases last year, the We are committed to addressing this type of
about poor behaviour or things that do not
career index remained stable at 71% and is behaviour and will continue to take action
seem right. At times, we know it can be
six points ahead of the global financial where we find that an employee has
difficult to raise concerns, so regular
services benchmark. The proportion of breached our values and high standards of
communication and tracking is important to
colleagues stating a preference to remain conduct.
us. We measure confidence to speak up via
with HSBC for five or more years increased
our Snapshot Speak Up Index, which is at
to 70%, up three percentage points from
Delivering accessible learning
We are committed to fostering an inclusive workplace for all colleagues, regardless of
technology or ability.
In 2024, our Global Mandatory Training received Gold at the Brandon Hall Awards for Best
Training Program for Global Accessibility Standards.
To uphold these standards we collaborate closely with our accessibility experts, ensuring our
digital learning aligns with the high benchmarks set for our customer-facing websites. Our
Global Mandatory Training assigned to all colleagues undergoes an external audit to identify
any gaps affecting the experience of colleagues, such as those with visual impairments or
those who are neurodiverse. We also conduct inclusive user testing to incorporate learner
feedback into the design, helping to ensure a seamless experience for everyone.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 67
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Being a great place to work
To fulfil our purpose and drive our strategy, Recognising colleagues’ success Our ‘At Our Best’ recognition platform offers
we need the best people, performing at their We believe in recognising our colleagues’ employees the opportunity to recognise their
best. Focusing on opportunities for success and have a number of mechanisms peers for role model behaviours linked to our
colleagues, making them a part of something to help enable colleagues to be rewarded for values. In 2024, our colleagues recognised
bigger and being clear on what they can their work. one another over 1.5 million times, up three
expect when they deliver on our strategy, is percentage points from 2023. Managers are
In 2024, we introduced performance routines,
fundamental to delivering for our customers. also encouraged to recognise colleagues’
to encourage our colleagues to talk about
service anniversaries every five years up to
Our workforce proposition strengthens our their ambitious goals throughout the year.
30 years of service, and at 40 years. In 2024
ability to attract, retain and energise our This is complemented with improving the
over 28,000 anniversaries were celebrated.
colleagues and is driven by three key reward exchange of feedback, so colleagues know
principles of rewarding colleagues’ how they are doing and how they can Share plans are another way to empower
responsibly, recognising colleagues’ success improve. These activities are brought colleagues to participate in the Group’s
and supporting our colleagues to grow. together through performance check-in success. In 2024, we invited 194,000
conversations at the year-end, with a colleagues to participate in our share plans
Rewarding colleagues responsibly simplified approach to performance and 93% of colleagues globally now have
Our pay and benefits proposition aims to
assessments. access to a share plan.
reward colleagues responsibly, helping to
ensure financial security for all. We remain These changes were communicated to over Supporting our colleagues to grow
committed to providing a competitive total 215,000 colleagues in 59 markets at the To help our colleagues to grow personally and
compensation package with an appropriate beginning of the year. Our Pay and Benefits professionally, we are committed to
mix of fixed pay and variable pay. In our survey measures several factors, including supporting their mental, physical and financial
Snapshot survey, 52% of colleagues feel they our colleagues’ understanding of well-being, offering flexibility and helping
are paid fairly for what they do, the sentiment performance routines, with 76% reporting a colleagues develop new skills.
remaining unchanged from 2023. ‘good understanding’ of how to practice
We use colleague feedback, benchmarking
them. In our Snapshot survey, 87% of
Following our accreditation as a global living from industry experts and we work with
colleagues reported that they had a clear
wage employer in 2024 we have continued to external partners across business, civil
understanding of what is expected of them
work with the Fair Wage Network, which society and academia. As a founding member
and 94% of colleagues said they have had at
provides an independent source of wage of the World Wellbeing Movement, we are
least one performance check-in conversation
levels. HSBC has achieved accreditation as a working with the associated Wellbeing
with their manager.
global living wage employer in 2025 in Research Centre at the University of Oxford
respect of the next two years. A living wage Variable pay allows us to recognise the to shape our approach to well-being. In
should be sufficient to cover an adequate performance and behaviours of our Snapshot, a record 78% of our colleagues
standard of living given the cost of goods and colleagues. In 2024 we introduced ‘Target said, ‘my organisation cares about my well-
services in each country in which we operate. Variable Pay’ to 150,000 colleagues in 47 being’, up nine percentage points from 2023.
We will continue to review all wages globally markets.
We further detail our approach to supporting
against local living wage benchmarks.
We have supported managers in their our colleagues to grow on the following page.
For our UK suppliers that have staff working understanding of the changes, with nearly We further detail our approach to skills and
within the UK, we seek to encourage them to 18,000 people managers attending training. career development on page 70.
pay at least the living wage. Changes to our pay structure provide more
clarity and transparency on how we make pay
For further details of our approach to workforce decisions and how performance impacts
reward, see page 301.
variable pay, helping colleagues understand
how they contribute to the performance of
the organisation.
Our first ever global activity challenge
We launched our first ever global activity challenge designed to help colleagues increase their
activity levels and well-being over a four-week period. With over 70 activities to choose from,
we supported colleagues with a new global internal community group on our intranet, two
expert speaker events, tailored content given on the Virgin Pulse app and motivational videos
filmed by colleagues. During the challenge, colleagues collectively logged physical activity
equivalent to 478,000 miles, which is equivalent to 19 times around the equator. After the
challenge, two thirds of the participants surveyed responded positively to joining the next
challenge.
One in four global colleagues with the Virgin Pulse app joined the challenge, with Asia-Pacific
accounting for 77% of all participation.
68 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Being a great place to work continued
Flexible working Physical well-being
Supporting our
Flexible working remains one of the top The Snapshot survey also revealed that 72%
reasons colleagues say they would of colleagues rate their physical health as colleagues in the Middle
recommend HSBC to someone else, with positive, compared with 74% in 2023. In
74% of colleagues saying flexible working is 2024, we continued to make the Virgin Pulse East
the aspect of our well-being programme they app available to colleagues, supporting them
In the wake of regional conflicts we
value the most. In 2024, 85% of our to increase their physical activity. Over
made promotion and support of mental
colleagues practised some form of flexible 21,000 colleagues have now downloaded the
health a priority. We held regular on-site
working arrangement, with 75% of app, up 260% from 2023. More than 1,000 Critical Incident Support across our
colleagues working in a hybrid way. personal and team activity challenges were
MENAT region, covering Egypt, UAE,
run and nearly 5,000 health checks were
We acknowledged that not all our colleagues Kuwait, Türkiye and Qatar.
completed.
had the right balance between working at
Across the region, belief that HSBC
home or in the office. In 2024, we have found We have continued to provide access to
genuinely cares about its colleagues was
that a better balance has been achieved, with private medical insurance for 99% of
at 66%, up 12 percentage points from
colleagues attending the office between 2-3 permanent employees and telemedicine
2023. We also found that awareness of
days per week on average. This was achieved healthcare services in the majority of our
mental health support at HSBC was at
by our senior leadership reinforcing their countries and territories. In certain countries
74%, up six percentage points from
expectations on office attendance. and territories, we also provide on-site
2023.
medical centres that the majority of
To further support flexibility and work-life
colleagues can access. We have also To support broader well-being across the
balance we have improved family leave
increased the number of colleagues who region we increased paid maternity leave
policies. We now offer 94% of employees at
have access to company paid health to a consistent 18 weeks. Family friendly
least 18 weeks of parental leave on full pay
assessments. In 2024, eligibility for a enhancements were also made to the
for primary caregivers, and 74% of
personalised health assessment was medical plan with the introduction of
employees have at least two weeks of paid
extended to all UK employees. Health fertility treatment coverage and new
leave for secondary caregivers. We also
assessments are provided in 43 countries and coverage for Applied Behaviour Analysis
provide five fully paid days of carers leave and
we are working to extend availability in 2025. in Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and the
of compassionate leave, to 67% and 79% of
UAE.
colleagues, respectively. Financial well-being
Financial challenges remain a concern for We also held on-site breast screening
Mental well-being many colleagues, caused by increases in the and flu immunisation appointments in
In 2024 we continued to retain number one
cost of living globally. In 2024, 62% of the UAE. Following increased demand
status in the CCLA Corporate Mental Health
colleagues said they felt positive about their for these services, more appointments
Benchmark for the third year running. While
financial health and 57% of colleagues said and longer hours have been made
we are pleased with the progress made in
they have at least three months of essential available.
2024, mental health did decline with 79% of
outgoings saved, both up one percentage
colleagues saying they have positive mental
point from 2023.
health, compared with 83% in 2023. This
decline aligns with broader societal trends, We launched a five-part financial well-being
Awards
with younger generations in particular series covering key career milestones. The
experiencing lower levels of mental health. series had over 4,000 attendees during the CCLA Global 100 Mental Health
live events, with 93% of participants saying Benchmark
We have continued to make the meditation
the events were useful or very useful. – Ranked number 1 global
app Headspace available to our colleagues
Recordings of the events have since been employer for the third
globally, with over 35,000 enrolled, and we
watched more than 15,000 times across 37 consecutive year
have extended access to family and friends.
countries. Since the launch of the series,
In 2024, we upgraded our Employee
65% of colleagues said they know where to
Assistance Programme in over 30 countries
find financial well-being support at HSBC, up
to support the mental health of colleagues
five percentage points from 2023.
and their families. We have lowered the age
threshold on paediatric counselling support, In our Pay and Benefits survey one in three
and in some countries this is now available colleagues said that they want more support
from age five years. More countries will aim with financial well-being. In 2025 we aim to
to enhance support for children in 2025. trial a new financial well-being platform with
5,000 colleagues in the UK and Asia to help
We have sought third-party assurances and
our colleagues improve their financial literacy,
benchmarking to ensure our approach
money skills and planning.
remains relevant and effective. In 2024, we
used the 2023 MindForward Alliance’s For further details of our Snapshot well-being
Thriving at Work Benchmark, for which we data see the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/
received a global score of 91 points, 14 points esg.
ahead of the global average.
In 2024, mental health awareness training
was completed by more than 227,000
colleagues as part of Global Mandatory
Training. Our voluntary mental health
education modules have been completed
over 37,000 times, with 74% being
managers. We have also expanded the global
reach of mental health champions in our
Mindfulness Network by nearly 27%.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 69
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Developing skills, careers and opportunities
Learning and skills development
Employee development energises our Our Global Mandatory Training covers key
colleagues for growth and helps equip them principles and foundational concepts of AI Energising our
with the skills they need today while also usage and we have developed foundational
colleagues for growth
preparing them to meet future challenges. and intermediate pathways to raise
awareness of AI principles, ethics, risks and
Enabling future skills governance. We have also developed specific We aim to provide our colleagues with
We have adapted our skills development courses tailored for our senior leadership the opportunity to develop critical skills
platforms and learning resources, to help population that focus on understanding AI while creating a pipeline of talent to
prepare our workforce for future challenges and exploring its use cases for business and support our strategic ambitions. It is
and enable skills building at scale. In 2024, decision making. essential that we promote effective
we: leadership and foster an environment
Skilling the transition to net zero that inspires our colleagues to grow. In
– increased the number of active users and
Our Sustainability Academy continues to 2024, our focus has been on:
participation in learning programmes via our
support our net zero ambitions and strategy.
learning experience Degreed. This aims to As the Academy has evolved, we have – Our Digital Acceleration Programme,
address skills gaps through internal and increased our focus on building capabilities which aims to create dynamic working
external learning content and courses, beyond foundational skills, specifically methods and simplify our technology
enabling colleagues to share, collaborate targeting priority groups that support both our landscape. This will enable us to work
and learn individually or in groups through customers and our operations in the faster and smarter, enhancing our
structured learning pathways; transition to net zero. In 2024, our key focus ability to develop better products and
– unlocked over 250,000 hours of skills has been on: services for our customers while
development through our Talent embracing innovative technologies;
– providing on-demand learning tailored to
Marketplace. To date more than 46,000 – Our ‘CARE’ programme, which
the specific roles, regions, and client bases
colleagues have created a profile helping embodies the principles of being
of colleagues involved in supporting
them match their interest in developing connected, accountable, responsive
customers through the transition;
specific skills or career goals with on-the- and empathic. It outlines the
job projects and networking; – facilitating external certifications and behaviours that reflect these values,
– accelerated the use of digital badging to qualifications, as needed, to deepen guiding our colleagues in delivering
acknowledge skill-building achievements. colleagues’ expertise in areas such as exceptional service to our customers.
We have launched over 150 badges and Sustainability Climate Risk through The programme has also been
issued over 12,000 badging credentials providers like GARP and Fitch; integrated into our customer
associated with priority skills such as – delivering a three-month Sustainability experience objectives, with progress
sustainability, AI and data analytics; and Leadership Programme in collaboration tracked through our Customer
with Imperial College London and our own Centricity Index, which is included in
– enabled our colleagues to learn via a range Sustainability Centre of Excellence experts our 2024 Snapshot survey.
of channels, reflected in an increase of total
training hours by our colleagues to 6.2 for over 200 colleagues; and – The Managing Director Leadership
million hours. – offering net zero learning opportunities to Programme, which was expanded in
the Board and 100 of our most senior 2024. It combines immersive in-
Maintaining our risk management culture leaders. person sessions on leadership with
Our Risk Academy delivers and deploys
virtual deep dives on key issues and
comprehensive learning opportunities for all We have leveraged our internal experts from all-hands strategy sessions, alongside
employees, including foundational training in the Sustainability Centre of Excellence to an enterprise risk leaders programme
traditional areas of risk management, such as provide advanced skills training in key and a series focused on doing
financial crime risk, and specialised transition areas, such as power systems and business in key locations. To support
development for senior leaders and those in storage, carbon removal, transition in Asia- our leadership pipeline we have
high-risk roles. The Academy also addresses Pacific, steel and cement industries, road refreshed our development offering
issues like ESG risk, AI and cybersecurity. transport systems, hydrogen and agriculture. for the next layer of leaders to be
delivered in 2025; and
For senior leaders, we have introduced new
programmes centred on Enterprise – Our Emerging Talent proposition,
Leadership through a risk lens. These Training at HSBC supporting HSBC in a future-focused
programmes are designed to support HSBC’s 6.2 million way, supplying the organisation with
strategic priority of sustainable growth by diverse and capable talent pools to
equipping leaders with the skills needed to anticipate and address existing future
navigate an evolving risk environment. We Training hours by our colleagues in 2024. skill shortages.
launched and concluded a new Financial (2023: 5.3 million)
Crime masterclass series for our senior
leader population, focusing on the importance 29.6 hours
of risk management and protecting the bank
from financial crime.
Training hours per FTE in 2024.
Building responsible AI expertise
(2023: 23.9 hours)
As we continue to enhance our AI capabilities
across the organisation, our new AI Academy
helps to support advanced skills development
aligned with HSBC’s AI strategy. This was
launched in response to the growing global
interest in AI and focuses on fostering AI
literacy and promoting responsible AI use
throughout the bank.
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Building customer inclusion and resilience
Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience
We believe that financial services, when seen that over 10% of goals have already been launched the Accessibility Hub, a multi-award
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality and achieved showing how this capability is helping winning accessibility awareness e-learning
help more people access opportunities. We support customers to build financial resilience. content, promoting digital accessibility to the
play an active role in opening up a world of general public, attracting circa 150,000 views
Well+, our flagship health and wellness-based
opportunity for customers and communities, as of September 2024. Also since launch,
reward programme on our HSBC HK mobile
by supporting their financial well-being, and more than 1,000 individuals across 140
banking app had another successful year with
removing barriers to accessing financial companies globally have participated in our
over 267,000 new customers in this year alone.
services. specialised digital accessibility Training 1000
More than 400,000 customers are now
Programme.
Access to products and services engaged, earning points by taking part in
We provide innovative solutions to help activities aimed at improving their holistic Supporting customers extends beyond our
improve customer access to products and health covering physical, mental and financial digital channels and we recognise that not all
services. For those in need of additional well-being. disabilities are visible. We rolled out our
support due to social or financial Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard Scheme
vulnerabilities or for those customers who do Communities to two additional markets this year – Singapore
In the UK we continued to support the
not qualify for a standard account, the UK and and the UAE – expanding it beyond the UK,
development of children and young people's
Hong Kong offer a No-cost Account with no Hong Kong, the Channel Islands and Australia.
financial capability, including those with special
minimum balance and no account opening The lanyard indicates that an individual may
education needs, through our Money Heroes
fees, to help with basic banking needs. need a little more help, support or time.
Programme – winner of the 2024 Third Sector
In the UK, we continue to offer our Business Charity Partnership Award (supported In 2024 two UK branches, Loughborough and
groundbreaking ‘No Fixed Address’ service, by Young Enterprise). In addition, we launched Sheffield, received awards for their accessible
working in partnership with housing and a new partnership with Girlguiding UK in and inclusive branch design. We are proud to
homelessness charity Shelter UK, providing November 2024, introducing the Money Skills be recognised by the Financial Times Diversity
access to financial services to help rebuild lives – ‘I’m Money Confident’ badge. in Finance Awards, the Construction Industry
and increase financial resilience. Since its launch Council and the Business Disability Forum for
For schools, colleges and youth groups we
in November 2019, this service has supported our work to improve accessibility, equity and
offer the ‘Smart Money’ programme, where
over 7,000 individuals, with over 1,400 of these inclusion in UK financial services.
training is delivered by HSBC colleagues to
in 2024 alone.
help improve financial capability and We continue to introduce accessibility features
employability. In 2024, we trained over 1,000 and designs (e.g. a curved notch and braille
Making banking accessible
colleagues, and working with our dedicated dots) to our card products across the globe to
Number of no-cost accounts held for
Financial Education Team, over 280,000 support people with visual impairments,
customers, in the UK and Hong Kong, who do
children and young people were engaged in learning difficulties, and colour blindness. In
not qualify for a standard account or who
the programme across the UK. 2024, we introduced accessibility features in
might need additional support due to social or
India, Philippines and Indonesia resulting in a
financial vulnerability. In Hong Kong we launched a face-to-face
total of 20 markets where those features are
training programme for teenagers with special
now available.
2024 674,439 education needs on how to make healthy
financial choices and build essential financial For the second year HSBC sponsored and
2023 718,306 skills for day-to-day living. hosted the annual AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro
Conference, Europe's largest event for the
2022 716,957 Creating an inclusive banking experience accessibility and disability inclusion
We endeavour to ensure that our banking
community, at our Group Head Office in
The reduction in no-cost accounts between 2023 products and services are designed to be London. Over 1,600 individuals attended the
and 2024 is due to bulk closure of inactive accounts accessible for customers experiencing either
event (in person or online) globally.
in the UK. temporary or permanent challenges, such as
disability, impairment or a major life event. In Supporting women
Supporting financial knowledge and Hong Kong we introduced a simplified mobile UK CMB launched a Women’s Business
education banking app designed to improve digital Growth Initiative Programme to support
We continue to invest in financial education inclusion for seniors, offering a more women in scaling their businesses and
content and tools across different channels to accessible and intuitive user experience. The provide access to funding, making £250m
help customers, colleagues and communities app features an enhanced interface with easy- available for lending, education and
be confident users of financial services, for to-understand buttons, increased use of networking opportunities. The aim of the
example by offering programmes focused on visuals, and streamlined access to essential support is to help narrow the credit gap for
improving resilience and basic money banking services. As the first initiative of its women-led businesses, which is estimated to
management skills. kind among Hong Kong banks, the app has be valued at $1.7tn globally.
been successful in engaging over 663,000
Customers In Mexico and Uruguay, our Mujeres Al
unique users since its launch in October 2022.
Since 2020, we received over 8.8 million Mundo programme helps to address gender
unique visitors to our global digital financial We are committed to improving accessibility gaps by providing businesswomen access to
education content, which helps customers across our digital channels and continuously funding, education and networking. In 2024
expand their financial capabilities through our review our browser-based websites and we provided over $190m in sustainable
personal financial management tools. mobile banking services against the Web financing to support women-owned
Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 AA enterprises in both countries. We also won
HSBC UK further enhanced capabilities that
standards. We promote digital accessibility by the 2024 Financial Alliance for Women’s
help customers to establish healthy savings
offering educational resource. In 2024 we ‘Outstanding Contributor’ award for enabling
habits through the launch of ‘Savings Goals’.
full financial access for women and unlocking
Customers have used this mobile banking
huge value in the Female Economy.
feature, since launch in April 2024, to set up
over 125,000 goals, with ‘Rainy Day’ as one of
the most popular categories. We have also
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 71
ESG
review
ESG review | Social
Engaging with our communities
Helping to build a more inclusive and resilient society
We have a long-standing commitment to We also work with our charity partners to Charitable giving in 2024 (%)
support the communities in which we help strengthen the resilience of
operate. We aim to empower people and communities where we operate. Initiatives
launched in 2024 included:
communities to develop the skills and
knowledge needed to thrive in the future.
– ‘Saving for Good’, in partnership with INJAZ
Through the global reach of our charitable Al Arab, which teaches financial literacy
partnerships we bring together diverse fundamentals to 2,386 low-income workers
people, ideas and perspectives that help us and the large migrant worker population in
open up opportunities and build a more the MENA region.
inclusive world. – A new financial literacy curriculum in Hong
Kong that aims to strengthen the financial
Building community and future skills
management knowledge of elderly learners
We work with charity partners to initiate
and provide a better understanding of
programmes that help people and Social, including Future Skills: 29%
communities respond to opportunities and fintech applications and awareness of Environment, including the Climate
online fraud. Solutions Partnership: 40%
challenges as global economies transition
Local Priorities: 21%
towards a low-carbon future. In 2024, these – We responded to disaster relief appeals to
Disaster relief and other giving: 10%
included: support efforts in Bangladesh, Central
Europe, Mexico, the Middle East, Spain,
– Continuing a partnership with the British Taiwan, Thailand, the USA and Vietnam.
Council in Brazil, Mexico, India, Indonesia Total cash giving towards charitable
and Vietnam, and in Australia, India and Community engagement and programmes
Malaysia with The King’s Trust Group, to volunteering $94.7m
We offer paid volunteering days, and
empower young, marginalised people with
encourage our people to offer their time,
the skills needed to excel in the green
skills and knowledge to causes within their
economy.
communities. In 2024, our colleagues gave
– In India, HSBC collaborated with two over 254,000 hours to community activities Hours volunteered during work time
charities to help enhance sustainability in during work hours. Examples of volunteering >254,000
the handloom and apparel sectors, efforts in 2024 included:
benefiting 10,000 weavers. Our initiatives
focused on adopting energy-efficient – around 260 employees supported
practices, reducing water pollution, Waterkeeper, a US-based environmental
promoting natural fibre products, and non-profit, with 700 hours volunteered
People projected to be reached through
increasing the use of natural dyes. across 16 events in the country; and
our social and future skills programme
– HSBC Continental Europe collaborated with – more than 200 employees acted as >928,000
Junior Achievement Europe to launch the mentors for marginalised youth in support
Climate Resilience Programme, which aims of the Strive and Rise Programme in Hong
to provide educational opportunities related Kong.
to innovations in climate resilience for
young people in France, Italy and Malta.
Resilient Community Environment Initiative helps to
build bio-diverse Beijing Palace Museum
Established in October 2023, the HSBC Philanthropy Foundation Beijing aims to build
inclusive and resilient communities by focusing on the development of children, support for
disabled elderly people, promoting employability and livelihoods, and building a resilient eco-
environment in communities.
In 2024, the Foundation’s ‘HSBC Resilient Community Environment Initiative’ was extended
to include the Palace Museum in Beijing’s Forbidden City. Altogether 2,243 square metres of
green space and a 118-square-metre pond in the Museum’s Cining Garden were renovated
and populated with diverse local species to form a healthy and resilient ecosystem. Visitors
to the Forbidden City have benefited from the enhanced scenery since the second half of
2024.
72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Governance
Acting responsibly
We remain committed to high standards of governance. We work
alongside our regulators and recognise our contribution to building
healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance
Our relationship feedback so we know where we need to We strive to meet our responsibilities to
We act on our responsibility to run our improve, and take steps to do this. Our society, including through being transparent
business in a way that upholds high customer satisfaction performance improved in our approach to paying taxes. We also seek
standards of corporate governance. in many markets in which we operate, to ensure we respect human rights in our
although we still have work to do to improve workplace and our supply chains, and
Customer experience is at the heart of how
our rank position against competitors. continually work to improve our compliance
we operate. It is imperative that we treat our
management capabilities.
customers well, that we listen, and that we We are committed to working with our
act to resolve complaints quickly and fairly. regulators to manage the safety of the For further details of our corporate governance,
We measure customer satisfaction through financial system, adhering to the spirit and see our corporate governance report on page
net promoter scores across each of our global the letter of the rules and regulations 236.
businesses, listen carefully to customer governing our industry.
In this section
Setting high How ESG is governed We expect that our approach to ESG governance is likely to continue to Page 74
standards of develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and
governance stakeholder expectations.
Human rights Our respect for human rights We have continued to develop our understanding of our salient human Page 75
rights issues and associated risk management.
Customer Customer satisfaction While we are positioned among the top three banks in 58% of our key Page 77
experience markets within WPB and CMB, we recognise the need to improve our
customer experience further to enhance our competitive ranking.
How we listen We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and manage Page 78
complaints.
Integrity, conduct Safeguarding the We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and reduce its Page 80
and fairness financial system impact on our organisation, customers and the communities that we
serve.
Whistleblowing Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our Page 80
colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
A responsible approach to We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which we Page 81
tax operate.
Conduct: Our product Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on the Page 82
responsibilities impact we have on our customers and the financial markets in which we
operate.
Our approach with We require suppliers to meet our third-party risk compliance standards Page 82
our suppliers and assess them to identify any financial stability concerns.
Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting the data we process, in accordance with Page 83
the laws and regulations of the markets in which we operate.
Cybersecurity We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, detect Page 84
and mitigate cyber-threats.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 73
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Setting high standards of governance TCFD
How ESG is governed
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer Risk Management Meeting and the Group
strategy, overseeing executive management and the chief risk officers of our PRA- Risk Committee, with scheduled updates
in developing the approach, execution and regulated businesses are the senior provided, as well as detailed reviews of
associated reporting. Progress against our managers responsible for climate financial material matters, such as climate-related
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board risks under the UK Senior Managers Regime. stress-testing exercises.
discussion and review of key topics, such as Climate risks are considered in the Group
updates on sustainability infrastructure
finance and employee sentiment. The Board
is regularly provided with specific updates on
ESG matters, including the sustainability How HSBC’s climate
execution programme, human rights and strategy is cascaded
workforce engagement. Board members
Opportunities Risks
receive ESG-related training as part of their
induction and ongoing development, and
seek out further opportunities to build their Board level governance
skills and experience in this area. For further
details of Board members’ ESG skills and
experience, see page 237. For further details
Group Board Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee
of their induction and training in 2024, see
page 250.
Specialist Board governance
In October 2024, we enhanced our ESG
governance with the establishment of a new
Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG’) of the Sustainability Working Group
HSBC Holdings Board, with an initial duration Provides guidance on the Group-wide medium- and longer-term sustainability strategy,
of 12 months. The SWG is comprised of five including our progress towards our net zero ambitions, taking into account key factors such
non-executive Directors, along with as risk appetite, commerciality, capability and data. The group will also oversee progress
against the strategy, including financing and supporting clients’ transitions. The group will
attendance by other executives. At the
provide guidance on target setting, policy review, financing and investing.
executive level, the governance activity was
streamlined with the removal of the Chair: Independent non-executive Director - Geraldine Buckingham
Sustainability Execution Committee, with its
activity managed within the project team. We
expect that our approach to ESG governance
is likely to continue to develop, in line with Management level governance
our evolving approach to ESG matters and
stakeholder expectations.
ESG Committee Group Risk Management Meeting
The diagram on the right provides an Has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, Oversees the enterprise-wide
material commitments and external management of all risks, including
illustration of our ESG governance process,
disclosure. Oversees and monitors updates relating to the Group’s
including how the Board’s strategy on climate
progress against ESG strategy, climate risk profile and risk appetite,
is cascaded and implemented throughout the policies, plans, targets, commitments top and emerging climate risks, and
organisation. It identifies examples of forums and execution processes. Reports to key climate initiatives.
that manage both climate-related the SWG and Board on progress on
opportunities and risks, along with their the commitments, deliverables and Chair: Group Chief Risk and
Compliance Officer
responsibilities and the responsible chair. The targets under the sustainability
execution programme.
structure of the process is similar for the
escalation of problems, with issues either Co-Chairs: Group CEO and Group
resolved in a given forum or raised to the Chief Sustainability Officer
appropriate level of governance with
appropriate scope and authority.
Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG matters, Regional, global business and group infrastructure
the governance activities are managed
Examples of ESG-related management governance
through a combination of specialist
The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.
governance infrastructure and regular
meetings and committees, where Sustainable Execution Group Reputational Risk Human Rights
appropriate. These include the Group Programme Committee Steering Committee
Oversees the global Provides recommendations Oversees the Group’s
Disclosure and Controls Committee and delivery of climate and advice on significant evolving approach to
Group Audit Committee, which provide strategy through 10 reputational risk matters human rights and
oversight for the scope and content of ESG modules. with impact across the provides enhanced
Group. governance.
disclosures, and the Group People Chair: Global Head of
Committee, which provides oversight support Sustainability Chair: Group Chief Risk Chair: Group Chief Risk
Transformation and Compliance Officer and Compliance Officer
for the Group’s approach to performance
management.
For some areas, such as climate where our
approach is more advanced, dedicated
governance activities exist to support the
wide range of activities.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Human rights
Our respect for human rights
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, Our salient human rights issues
we recognise the role of business in Illustration of HSBC Group’s inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.
respecting human rights. Our approach is
guided by the UN Guiding Principles on HSBC activities
Business and Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and
Provider of products
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational and services
Enterprises on Responsible Business
Conduct. Personal Business
Inherent human rights risks Employer Buyer customers customers Investor
Our salient human rights issues
We continue to develop our understanding of Right to Freedom from forced labour u u u
our salient human rights issues. These are decent Just and favourable conditions of work u u u u
the human rights at risk of the most severe work Right to health and safety at work u u u u
negative impact through our business Right to equality and freedom from discrimination u u u u u
activities and relationships. Right to privacy u u u
An extensive review of our salient human Cultural and land rights u u u
rights issues conducted in 2022 identified five Right to dignity and justice u u u u u
human rights risks inherent to HSBC’s
business globally, and five types of activity
through which such risks might arise. These We continued to develop our in-house We regularly review our sustainability risk
are represented in the adjacent table. capability on human rights with the launch of policies and policy implementation as we
further online resources for all staff and apply our policies in practice.
In 2023, building on this assessment, we
bespoke human rights training for key
provided practical guidance and training, colleagues, including those managing For further details, see our sustainability risk
where relevant, to our colleagues across the policies at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
relationships with suppliers and business
Group on how to identify and manage human responsible-business/managing-risk/
customers, and those with responsibility for
rights risk. sustainability-risk.
overseeing risk management processes.
In 2024, we focused on our approach to Financial crime controls
For further details of the actions taken to respect
human rights risk management relating to the Our financial crime risk framework also helps
the right to decent work, see our 2024 Annual
goods and services we buy from third parties Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at to mitigate the risk of being associated with
and in respect of our business customers. www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and- adverse human rights impacts, by helping to
We issued human rights due diligence good responsible-business/modern-slavery-act. identify and assess the financial crime risk
practice guidance tailored to procurement and For further details of the actions taken to respect associated with our customers, employees
corresponding high-level guidance for staff the right to equality and freedom from and third parties.
who manage our relationships with our discrimination, see ’Our approach to inclusion’
business customers. on page 64. For further details of how we fight financial
crime, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
Managing risks to human rights Sustainability risk policies responsible-business/fighting-financial-crime.
In 2024, we continued the process of Some of our business customers operate in
adapting our risk management procedures to sectors in which the risk of adverse human Other principles
reflect what we learned from the work on rights impact is considered greater. Our HSBC’s Principles for the Ethical Use of Data
salient human rights issues and began sustainability risk policies consider human and Artificial Intelligence include how we
embedding the related guidance documents rights issues such as forced labour, harmful seek to respect the right to privacy while
described above. or exploitative child labour, workers’ rights making use of these technologies.
and land rights.
We developed a human rights due diligence For further details see www.hsbc.com/-/files/
operating procedure for procurement globally. Through our membership of international hsbc/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/
The procedure describes the due diligence certification schemes, such as the Forestry pdfs/240715-hsbc-principles-for-the-ethical-use-
process undertaken to identify suppliers Stewardship Council, the Roundtable on of-data-and-ai.pdf?download=1.
where the risk of adverse human rights Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator
impact is considered higher and the process Principles, we recognise standards aimed at
to be followed to review and mitigate the respecting human rights.
risk. We built on the human rights supplier
audit pilots undertaken in 2023 in our Asia-
Pacific and Latin America regions with an
expanded programme of human rights audits
in 11 countries across Asia-Pacific, Latin
America, the Middle East and North Africa.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 75
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Our respect for human rights continued
Supporting change In 2024, HSBC Asset Management joined the Supporting those impacted and those
We continued to participate in industry Investor Initiative on Human Rights Data potentially at risk
forums, including the Thun Group of Banks, (‘II-HRD’), a collaborative engagement We continued to expand our Survivor Bank
which is an informal group that seeks to initiative that aims to improve the depth and programme, which has now supported over
promote understanding of the UNGPs within breadth of corporate human rights data 3,500 (a more than 15% increase since last
the sector, and the UN Global Compact available to investors and the transparency of year) survivors of modern slavery and human
Human Rights Working Group. human rights assessment criteria. This trafficking in the UK.
initiative seeks to address the industry-wide
HSBC has been a member of the Mekong Our Wealth and Personal Banking team
challenges commonly cited, including lack of
Club since 2016. We are a participant in their continues to deliver training to raise
transparent ESG ratings methodologies by
financial services working group, and we use awareness of modern slavery, enabling
commercial data providers and insufficient
their informative typological toolkits, employees to spot signs of abuse and
inclusion of human rights data.
infographics, and other multimedia resources escalate their concerns through established
covering current and emerging issues. Our For HSBC Asset Management’s Stewardship channels. In addition, our customer-facing
compliance teams regularly collaborate and Plan, see: www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/ employees globally are trained to identify and
engage with the Mekong Club in designing en/institutional-investor/about-us/responsible- support vulnerable customers as part of their
investing/-/media/files/attachments/uk/policies/
Group-wide knowledge sharing and training induction training.
stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.
sessions.
For further details of our work to support
Investments vulnerable communities, see page 71.
HSBC Asset Management acknowledges the
important role that business plays in Effectiveness
respecting human rights. If mismanaged or The table below includes some indicative
left unaddressed, human rights violations metrics we use to measure year-on-year
may materialise as business risks, negatively improvement to our human rights processes.
impacting investee companies’ operations,
supply chain or brand. These may in turn
present risk both to client investments and
reputation.
Measuring effectiveness
HSBC Asset Management engages with
companies prioritised for purposeful Metric 2024 2023
engagement under its Stewardship Plan on Contracted suppliers who either confirmed adherence to the code of
core themes material to investee companies, conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our 96.7% 95%
including human rights. Engagements may be Global Procurement function
on a one-on-one basis, or collaboratively with
Employees who have received training on one or more aspects of human
other investors. In 2024, it has developed rights 11,884 8,176
engagement guidelines, highlighting its
expectations of good practice for companies,
where human rights may be a material issue. For further inclusion metrics, see page 64 in this ESG review.
Further details can be found in its
Stewardship Plan. The Global Voting
Guidelines provide an overview of its
approach to exercising its shareholder rights
in respect of ESG issues, including human
rights.
76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Customer experience
We remain committed to improving to help us understand our strengths and the six key markets across WPB and CMB1 in line
customers’ experiences. In 2024, we areas we need to focus on. We were ranked with 2023.
gathered feedback from over one million among the top three banks or improved our
customers across our three global businesses ranking against our competitors in 58% of our
Customer satisfaction
Listening to drive improvement How we fared After an improved rank position in 2023, our
We have continued to embed our feedback In WPB, we were ranked among the top overall performance in the UK has stabilised
system so we can better listen, learn and act three banks against our competitors in Hong in 2024. Even though we sit outside of the
on customer feedback. We use the net Kong and mainland China. In Hong Kong, we top 3 in business banking, we are still ranked
promoter score (‘NPS’) and customer remained first overall against our competitors, in the top 3 among mid-market enterprise and
satisfaction to provide a consistent measure and improved our NPS score. This was driven large corporates in the UK. We remain
of our performance. NPS is measured by by improved scores across all customer committed to improving our NPS
subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ segments. performance across markets, with action
from the percentage of ‘promoters’. plans developed centrally and locally.
Our NPS rank improved in the UK and
‘Detractors’ are customers who provide a
Singapore. This was largely driven by In GBM, we have one of the highest
score of 0 to 6, and ‘promoters’ are
improved scores among our affluent satisfaction scores against our international
customers who provide a score of 9 to 10 to
customers. In Mexico our rank remained competitors. We were ranked in the top three
the question: ‘On a scale on 0 to 10, how
stable, and in India our rank declined, largely banks globally, with high satisfaction scores
likely is it that you would recommend HSBC
driven by our personal banking customers. based on our digital capabilities.
to a friend or colleague’.
In our private bank, our global NPS increased
We run studies that allow us to benchmark
ourselves against other banks. We try to to 48 points, compared with 42 points in Number of markets in top three or
make it as easy as possible for customers to 2023. All the existing markets included in the improving rank1,2
programme increased their scores from 2023
give us feedback, leveraging our use of digital 2024
and we have included India and UAE for the
real-time surveys to capture insight. By
WPB 4 out of 6
first time this year.
sharing this and other feedback with our
CMB 3 out of 6
front-line teams, and allowing them to
In CMB, we were ranked among the top
respond directly to customers, we are
three banks against our competitors in three
improving how we address issues and realise 1 The six markets comprise: the UK, Hong Kong,
of our six key markets. We ranked first in Mexico, mainland China, India and Singapore.
opportunities.
Hong Kong and as a top three bank in Rank positions are provided using data gathered
Singapore and India. In mainland China, we through third-party research agencies.
We continue to run dedicated global forums 2 We benchmark our NPS against our key
ranked outside the top three but ranked first
to provide oversight of our retail and business competitors to create a rank position in each
among international banks. In Mexico, we
customers’ experiences and promote market. This table is based on the number of
continuous improvement. This helps ensure have dropped from 3rd to 4th position due to markets where we are in the top three or have an
we use feedback in all aspects of how we run improved competitor performance in improved rank from the previous year.
business banking.
our business, and prioritise initiatives that
matter most to our customers.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, we have continued to focus on leverage data to improve our engagements adoption of customer digital capabilities to
developing our products and services, and with customers and are investing in improve fulfilment turnaround times. We
enhancing our digital capabilities to improve technology to drive process efficiencies, have also increased the resilience of our
customer experience. reduce query volumes and drive automation. digital channels and further reduced customer
Our new Trade Solutions platform (‘HTS’) lets fraud risk. These actions are helping to build
Wealth and Personal Banking us quickly deploy new capabilities (like greater digital trust with our customers and
We continue to redesign our international
TradePay) across multiple markets. It helps thereby improving customer experience.
products and services to make it quicker and
provide a consistent user experience and
easier to bank internationally. This year we enables easy connectivity to other platform Global Banking and Markets
have improved the way our customers make We continued our efforts to support our
ecosystems.
international payments. Customers can send clients in their sustainability and transition
funds directly to mobile wallets from their In sustainability we continue to build an end- journey by maintaining our Top 5 book-runner
banking app, with customers now able to to-end customer journey through launching position globally in green, sustainable and
send international payments with just the new propositions that incentivise and reward social bonds, and by extending the
recipients’ name alongside their phone customers for improving their ESG sustainability-focused product and solutions
number or email address. performance, such as the HSBC Buildings range beyond the labelled products suite. We
Sustainability Assessment Tool in the UK and have refined our priority and core coverage
Commercial Banking Sustainability Improvement Loan. In our model, including piloting a range of priority
Global Payments Solutions (‘GPS’)
Customer Channels division, we have client squads to drive specific client goals.
implemented a new globally aligned client
deployed AI and personalisation solutions to We continue to invest in our coverage
service model focused on delivering an
improve proactive engagement and the enablement strategy, including thought
enhanced front-to-back client experience. We
speed of query resolution. We have increased leadership and transaction banking solutions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 77
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
How we listen
To improve how we serve our customers, we
must be open to feedback and acknowledge How we handle complaints
when things go wrong. We continue to adapt
at pace to provide support for customers Our principles Our actions
facing new challenges, new ways of working
Making it easy Customers can complain through the channel that best suits them. We provide a
and those that require enhanced care needs. for customers point of contact along with clear information on next steps and timescales.
to complain
We aim to be open and consistent in how we
track, record and manage complaints, Acknowledging All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise empathy to
complaints acknowledge our customers’ issues. Complaints are escalated if they cannot be
although as we serve a wide range of
resolved at first point of contact.
customers – from personal banking and
wealth customers to large corporates, Keeping the We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout the complaint
institutions and governments – we tailor our customer up to resolution process through their preferred channel.
date
approach in each of our global businesses. As
the table on the right demonstrates, we have Ensuring fair We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and ensure the right
a consistent set of principles that enable us resolution outcome for our customers.
to remain customer-focused throughout the Providing We provide customers with information on their rights and the appeal process if
complaints process. available rights they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint.
Undertaking Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and address any
For further details of complaints volumes by
root cause systemic issues and to inform process improvements.
geography, see our ESG Data Pack at analysis
www.hsbc.com/esg.
Wealth and Personal Banking
In 2024, we received approximately 887,000 In Mexico, there was a 5.3% fall in the
complaints from customers in eight priority volume of total complaints in 2024 compared WPB complaint volumes1
markets, and the ratio of complaints per 1,000 with 2023, with unrecognised debit card (per 1,000 customers per month)
customers per month in these markets charges down by 9% despite an increase in
decreased from 2.2 to 2.0. We had a reduction transaction volumes. This was achieved 2024 2023
in complaints in our top three markets (the UK, through targeted actions, including improving Total2 2.0 2.2
Hong Kong and Mexico), which comprise 86% fraud processes and the introduction of UK3 q 1.0 1.1
of complaints globally. enhancements to the way customers receive Hong Kong3 q 0.7 0.9
purchase authorisations.
In the UK, complaints fell 9%. During 2024, Mexico3 q 5.0 5.2
our two key priorities continued to be In our private bank, we received 647
complaints prevention, and improving the complaints, an increase of 140 compared
1 A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction
quality of resolution of the complaints we with 2023. This was largely due to the
about WPB’s activities, products or services
received. We made good progress in both inclusion of complaint data for the private
where a response or resolution is explicitly, or
areas, driven by targeted intervention in banking operation in India, which received implicitly, expected.
priority areas and ongoing regular oversight. 128 complaints in 2024. Complaint data for 2 Priority markets in 2024 included: the UK, Hong
This has included identifying prominent this business was reported in WPB figures in Kong (excluding Hang Seng), Mexico, mainland
complaint themes – such as telephony 2023. Banking products and service issues China, India, UAE, Singapore and Australia,
customer experience, transaction disputes and represented the largest volume of complaints selected based on complaints volume, customer
base and strategic importance among other
international payment processing – and overall, a high proportion of which were
factors. The 2023 total has been revised from 2.3
allocating them to individual executives as attributable to issues with payment
to 2.2 due to a change in the composition of these
accountable ‘owners’ to remedy the root processing and credit cards. Overall, the eight priority markets.
cause. private bank resolved 646 complaints. 3 The UK, Hong Kong and Mexico make up 86%
of total complaints.
The decrease in complaints in Hong Kong was
primarily driven by improvements in
capabilities that make banking with HSBC
easier for customers. A deeper customer-
centric culture, regular reviews, root cause
analysis of customer feedback and greater
collaboration across business lines to address
emerging customer pain points, also
contributed to the fall in complaints.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, we continued to improve our capabilities and tools across the business to enhance the customer experience globally. By consistently
measuring customer experience, we actively listen, learn and take action based on what our customers share with us. Additionally, we introduced
a customer experience behavioural framework across the bank, aligned with HSBC’s core values. This framework supports our colleagues in
meeting minimum service standards and prioritising customer experience in their daily routines. These efforts enable us to identify opportunities
to continue to improve our customer experience and systematically track and measure our progress.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
How we listen continued
Commercial Banking
In 2024 we received 46,276 customer and Although we have seen a minor increase in
client complaints, an increase of 0.8% from complaint volumes, this reflects CMB complaint volumes
2023. Of the overall volume, 32,748 came improvements in the quality of our logging (000s)
from HSBC UK, 8,779 from Asia-Pacific and process and we have increased our 2024 2023
the remainder from the rest of our global understanding of the root cause of many Total 46.2 45.9
markets. complaints. In 2024, we enhanced training for UK1 q 32.7 33.8
The most common complaint related to our front-line colleagues to ensure they can Hong Kong1 p 7.7 6.5
accurately identify the differences between a
servicing and transactions, with the largest
complaint, query and feedback and upgraded
volume of complaints globally coming from our complaint reporting tools. For 2025, our 1 The UK and Hong Kong (excluding Hang Seng)
business banking customers, representing account for 87% of total complaints.
focus will be on addressing the root cause of
68.2% of our total complaints.
complaint trends, as well as improvements to
our systems, processes and customer advice.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, we have further invested in comprehensive training programmes for our staff to ensure they are equipped with the skills and
knowledge needed to manage complaints effectively. This includes training on active listening, empathy, identification and treatment of
customers in financial difficulty and conflict resolution. All of our front-line teams globally went through this training to ensure that conduct and
the customer are at the heart of our management of client feedback. We have implemented advanced complaint reporting tools that enable us
to capture customer feedback more accurately and efficiently. These tools allow us to identify and address issues promptly. Within our Business
Banking segment, we continue to work with front-line teams to identify and manage complaints better.
Global Banking and Markets
In 2024, we received 1,838 customer In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS’)
complaints in Global Banking, an increase of complaints decreased by 13.6% to 306. The GBM complaint volumes1
18.4% from 2023. Of the overall complaint majority of complaints were operational in
2024 2023
volumes, 37.6% came from Europe and nature and resolved in a timely manner. Of
28.9% came from Asia-Pacific. The most the overall MSS complaints, 49% came from Total 2,144 1,906
common complaint, at 34.2% of total Europe and 33.9% from Asia-Pacific, our two Global
complaints, related to transactions. largest markets. Banking2 p 1,838 1,552
Global Markets
and Securities q
Services3 306 354
1 Globally, a complaint is any expression of
dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, relating to
the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific
product or service or service activity. Within the
UK, a complaint is any expression of
dissatisfaction – whether justified or not – about
our products, services or activities, which suggests
we have caused (or might cause) financial loss,
material distress or a material inconvenience.
2 Global Banking also includes Global Payments
Solutions (previously known as Global Liquidity
and Cash Management) and complaints relating
to payment operations.
3 Contains Global Research complaint volumes.
Acting on feedback
In 2024, our focus has been to increase the capture and quality of complaints received within GBM. Our focus has been on doing deep dives
into the quality of complaints received and delivering bespoke training on the complaint themes that we see. We have defined robust
feedback loops allowing us to learn continuously from customer experiences and embed these into our processes. We regularly review and
analyse complaint data to identify trends and implement improvements in our services. Although we have seen growth in complaint
volumes, we are seeing higher levels of compliant quality and better decisions to address them in the first instance.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 79
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Integrity, conduct and fairness
Safeguarding the financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat These new technologies should enhance our
financial crime and reduce its impact on our ability to respond effectively to unusual
organisation, customers and the communities activity and be more granular in our risk
that we serve. Financial crime includes fraud, assessments.
bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions
and export control violations and evasion, Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
Our global financial crime policy requires that
money laundering, terrorist financing and
all activity must be: conducted without intent
proliferation financing.
to bribe or corrupt; reasonable and
We manage financial crime risk because it is transparent; considered to be neither lavish
the right thing to do to protect our customers, nor disproportionate to the professional
shareholders, staff, the communities in which relationship; appropriately documented with
we operate, as well as the integrity of the business rationale; and authorised at an
financial system on which we all rely. We have appropriate level of seniority. Our global
a financial crime risk management framework financial crime policy requires that we identify
that is applicable across all global businesses and mitigate the risk of our employees,
The scale of our work
and functions, and in all countries and territories customers and third parties committing
in which we operate. The financial crime risk bribery or corruption. Among other controls, Each month in 2024 we monitored
framework, which is overseen by the Board, is we use risk assessments, due diligence and approximately 900 million transactions
supported by our financial crime policy that is ongoing monitoring following a risk-based for signs of financial crime. We
designed to enable adherence to applicable approach, to identify and help mitigate the performed daily screening of
laws and regulations globally. Annual global risk that our customers are involved in, or use approximately 121 million customer
mandatory training is provided to all colleagues, HSBC’s products or services, to commit records for sanctions exposure. In 2024,
with additional targeted training tailored to bribery or corruption. In 2024, two former we filed over 113,000 suspicious activity
certain individuals. We carry out regular risk employees of an HSBC subsidiary in China reports to law enforcement and
assessments to identify where we need to were convicted of bribery-related offences regulatory authorities where we
respond to evolving financial crime threats, as and each received a fine and suspended identified potential financial crime.
well as to monitor and test our financial crime sentence. The HSBC subsidiary in China self-
risk management programme. reported this matter to the police and was not
99%
a subject of the police investigation or
We continue to invest in new technology; we
charges.
are enhancing our fraud monitoring capability
and our trade screening controls, and Total percentage of permanent and non-
investing in the application of machine permanent employees who received financial
learning to improve the accuracy and crime training, including on anti-bribery and
timeliness of our detection capabilities. corruption.
Whistleblowing
We want colleagues and stakeholders to We continue to actively promote our full For further details of the role of the Group Audit
have confidence in speaking up when they range of speak-up channels to colleagues to Committee in relation to whistleblowing,
observe unlawful or unethical behaviour. We help ensure their concerns are handled including updates received in 2024 on
offer a range of speak-up channels to listen to through the most effective route. In 2024, operational effectiveness, see page 267.
the concerns of individuals and have a zero 13% fewer concerns were raised through
tolerance policy for acts of retaliation. HSBC Confidential compared with 2023. Of HSBC Confidential concerns raised in
the concerns investigated through the HSBC 2024:
Listening through whistleblowing Confidential channel in 2024, 66% related to 1,527
channels individual behaviour and personal conduct,
Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC
21% to security and fraud risks, 12% to
Confidential, is one of our speak-up channels,
compliance risks and less than 1% to other (2023: 1,746)
which allows colleagues and other
categories.
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially
Substantiation rate of concerns
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to The Group Audit Committee has oversight of
investigated through HSBC Confidential
local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements, and
in 2024:
Confidential concerns are raised through an the Chair of the Group Audit Committee acts
35%
independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines as HSBC’s Whistleblowers’ Champion with
and a web portal in multiple languages. We responsibility for ensuring and overseeing the
also provide and monitor an external email integrity, independence and effectiveness of
(2023: 41%)
address for concerns about accounting, the Group’s policies and procedures.
internal financial controls or auditing matters
Regulatory Compliance sets the
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). Concerns
whistleblowing policy and procedures, and
are investigated proportionately and
provides the Group Audit Committee with
independently, with action taken where
periodic updates on their effectiveness.
appropriate. This can include disciplinary
Specialist teams and investigation functions
action, such as dismissal and adjustments to
own whistleblowing controls, with monitoring
variable pay and performance ratings, or
in place to determine control effectiveness.
operational actions including changes to
policies and procedures.
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
A responsible approach to tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all – We seek to ensure that our entities active Our tax contributions
jurisdictions in which we operate, and to in nil or low tax jurisdictions have clear The Group effective tax rate for the year of
minimise the likelihood of customers using business rationale for why they are based 22.6% was higher than in the previous year
our products and services to evade or in these locations and appropriate (2023: 19.1%). The effective tax rate for the
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide by transparency over their activities. year increased by 4.8% due to the non-
international protocols that affect our deductible loss in respect of the sale of our
– We seek to have open and transparent
organisation. Our approach to tax and business in Argentina, and decreased by
relationships with all tax authorities. Given
governance processes is designed to achieve 3.6% due to the non-taxable gain on the
the size and complexity of our organisation,
these goals. disposal of HSBC Canada. Further details are which operates across 58 jurisdictions, a
provided on page 380.
Through adoption of the Group’s risk number of areas of differing interpretation
management framework, we seek to ensure or disputes with tax authorities exist at any Tax paid in 2024 is higher than in 2023 mainly
that we do not adopt inappropriately tax- point in time. We cooperate with the because the Hong Kong Inland Revenue
motivated transactions or products, and that relevant local tax authorities to mutually Department did not issue HSBC’s corporation
tax planning is scrutinised and supported by agree and resolve these in a timely manner. tax assessments for 2023 until January 2024,
genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are at which time they were paid. The equivalent
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. guided by the following principles: assessments for 2024 were received and
paid in December 2024.
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided – We have made considerable investments
by the following principles: to support external tax transparency The UK bank levy charge for 2024 of $249m
initiatives and reduce the risk of banking was lower than the charge of $339m in 2023,
– We are committed to applying both the
services being used to facilitate customer as the charge for 2023 was increased by
letter and spirit of the law. This includes
tax evasion. Initiatives include the US adjustments arising upon filing prior year
adherence to a variety of measures arising
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the returns.
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit
OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of
Shifting initiative including the ‘Pillar Two’ As highlighted below, in addition to paying
Financial Account Information (‘Common
global minimum tax rules that apply to the $9.2bn (2023: $6.8bn) of our own tax
Reporting Standard’), and the UK legislation
Group from 2024. These rules seek to liabilities during 2024, we collected taxes of
on the corporate criminal offence of failing
ensure that the Group pays tax at a $10.1bn (2023: $10.8bn) on behalf of
to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction in governments around the world. A more
which it operates. We have identified 14 – We implement processes that aim to detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes
jurisdictions that may have an effective tax ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated paid in 2024 is provided in the ESG Data
rate below 15% in 2024. We continually products and services are not provided to Pack.
monitor the number of active subsidiaries our customers.
within each jurisdiction as part of our
ongoing entity rationalisation programme.
Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region
Tax on profits $6,080m (2023: $3,685m) Europe $2,780m (2023: $2,945m) Europe $4,214m (2023: $4,714m)
Withholding taxes $667m (2023: $432m) Asia-Pacific $5,020m (2023: $2,488m) Asia-Pacific $3,223m (2023: $3,226m)
Employer taxes $1,003m (2023: $1,052m) Middle East, North Africa Middle East, North Africa
Bank levy $135m (2023: $57m) and Türkiye $421m (2023: $296m) and Türkiye $118m (2023: $77m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,098m (2023: $1,298m) North America $291m (2023: $389m) North America $1,025m (2023: $1,119m)
Other duties and levies $229m1 (2023: $249m) Latin America $700m (2023: $655m) Latin America $1,483m (2023: $1,680m)
1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $76m (2023: $91m).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 81
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Conduct: Our product responsibilities
Our conduct approach guides us to do the Our approach includes: Financial promotion
right thing and to focus on the impact we Our policies help to ensure that in the sale of
– designing products to meet identified
have for our customers and the financial products and services, we use marketing and
customer needs;
markets in which we operate. It is embedded product materials that support customer
into the way we design, approve, market and – managing products through governance understanding and fair customer outcomes.
manage products and services, with a focus processes, helping to ensure they meet This includes providing information on
on five clear outcomes: customers’ needs and deliver a fair products and services that is fair, clear and
exchange of value; not misleading. We also have controls in
– We understand our customers’ needs.
place to help ensure our cross-border
– periodically reviewing products to help
– We provide products and services that offer marketing complies with relevant regulatory
ensure they remain relevant and perform in
a fair exchange of value. requirements.
line with expectations we have set; and
– We service customers’ ongoing needs and
– improving, or withdrawing from sale, products
put it right if we make a mistake.
which do not meet our customers’ needs or
Product governance
– We act with integrity in the financial no longer meet our high standards.
Our product management policy covers
markets we operate in.
Meeting our customers’ needs the entire lifecycle of the product. This
– We operate resiliently and securely to avoid Our policies and procedures set standards to helps ensure that our products meet our
harm to customers and markets. help ensure that we consider and meet requirements before we sell them and
customer needs. These include: allows continued risk-based oversight of
We train all our colleagues on our approach to
product performance against the
customer and market conduct, helping to – enabling customers to understand the key
intended customer outcomes.
ensure our conduct outcomes are part of features of products and services;
everything we do.
When we decide to withdraw a product
– enabling customers to make informed
from sale, we aim to consider the
Designing products and services decisions before purchasing a product or
implications for our existing customers
Our approach to product development is set service; and
and agree actions to help them achieve a
out in our policies and provides a clear basis
– ensuring processes are in place for the fair outcome where appropriate.
on which informed decisions can be made.
provision of advice to customers.
Our policies require that products must be fit-
for-purpose throughout their existence, They help us provide the right outcomes for
meeting regulatory requirements and customers, including those with enhanced
associated conduct outcomes. care needs. This enables us to support
customers who are more vulnerable to
external impacts.
Our approach with our suppliers
We maintain global standards and procedures – We have started developing a biodiversity Supplier code of conduct
for the onboarding and use of third-party strategy that aims to integrate biodiversity Our supplier code of conduct (‘the code’) was
suppliers. We require suppliers to meet our considerations into our procurement refreshed in 2024, setting out our ambitions
third-party risk compliance standards and practices and define a clear set of and areas of focus on the environment,
assess them to identify any financial stability requirements for our suppliers. diversity and human rights, and outlines the
concerns. minimum standards we expect of our
– Since its launch in 2023, the Supplier
suppliers on these issues. We continue to
Sustainable procurement Diversity Portal is now live in a number of formalise adherence to the code with clauses
Supporting and engaging with our supply jurisdictions. Further expansion is planned in our supplier contracts, which support the
chain is vital to the development of our for 2025 to reach a wider demographic of right to audit and act if a breach is discovered.
sustainable procurement processes. In 2024: diverse-owned suppliers (at least 51% At the end of 2024, 96.7% of approximately
owned, managed or controlled by a
10,200 contracted suppliers had either
– We continued gathering carbon emission historically and locally under-represented
confirmed adherence to the code or provided
data from our suppliers through CDP group). For further details, see
their own alternative that was accepted by
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-
our Global Procurement function.
introduced a new data collection method to responsible-business/working-with-suppliers.
simplify and improve our supplier outreach For further details of the number of suppliers in
– To increase engagement with diverse-
for scope 3 data collection. each geographical region, see the ESG Data
owned suppliers, we introduced a Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
– We began implementing decarbonisation development programme. The programme
plans for our three highest emitting is designed to empower diverse-owned
procurement categories: technology; real suppliers to effectively engage with large
estate; and professional services. We corporations, including HSBC, and supports
engaged suppliers on their emissions our ambition to further diversify our supply
disclosure plans and carbon reduction chain, to represent the communities that we
targets. We outlined what we expect of our operate in.
suppliers on these aspects and explored
joint opportunities.
– We hosted a Supply Chain Decarbonisation
Day with senior managers at HSBC and
suppliers to facilitate collaboration and
discuss innovative decarbonisation solutions
with some of our largest suppliers.
82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Safeguarding data
Data privacy
We are committed to protecting the data we As part of our three lines of defence model,
process, in accordance with the laws and our Global Internal Audit function provides
regulations of the markets in which we independent assurance as to whether our
operate. data privacy risk management approaches
and processes are designed and operating
Our approach rests on having the right talent,
effectively. In addition, we have established
technology, systems, controls, policies and
data privacy governance structures and
processes to ensure appropriate
continue to embed accountability across all
management of privacy risk. Our Group-wide
businesses and functions.
data risk policy and principles provide a
consistent global approach to managing data We continue to implement industry practices
privacy risk, and must be applied by all our for data privacy and security. Our privacy
global businesses and functions. Our privacy teams work closely with our data protection
principles are available at www.hsbc.com/ officers, industry bodies and research
who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/ institutions to drive the design,
managing-risk/operational-risk. implementation and monitoring of privacy
Data Privacy Day
solutions. We conduct regular reviews and
We conduct regular employee training and
privacy risk assessments and continue to In February 2024, we held a global online
awareness sessions on data privacy and
develop solutions to strengthen our data event for our colleagues to mark
security issues throughout the year. This
privacy controls. International Data Privacy Day. The event
includes mandatory training that is updated
was hosted by our Global Head of Data
regularly for all our global colleagues, with We have procedures to articulate the actions
Legal, in collaboration with the
additional training sessions where needed to needed to deal with data privacy
International Association of Privacy
keep up to speed with new developments. considerations. These include notifying
Professionals.
Where relevant, we encourage our data regulators, customers or other data subjects,
privacy employees to obtain external as required under applicable privacy laws and The discussion focused on key
accreditation. regulations, in the event of a reportable developments in the data privacy
incident occurring. landscape for 2024 and beyond, including
We provide transparency to our customers
the impact of digital entropy and rapidly
and stakeholders on how we collect, use and
Intellectual property rights practices evolving AI-related advancements. This
manage their personal data, and their
We have a Group intellectual property risk was followed by a Q&A with the
associated rights. Where relevant, we work
policy, supported by controls and guidance, to audience to encourage further dialogue.
with third parties to help ensure adequate
manage risk relating to intellectual property.
protections are provided, in line with our data
This is to help ensure that commercially and
risk policy and as required under applicable
strategically valuable intellectual property is
data privacy laws. We offer a broad range of
identified and protected appropriately,
channels in the markets where we operate,
including by applying to register trademarks
through which customers and stakeholders
and patents and enforcing our intellectual
can raise concerns about the privacy of their
property rights against unauthorised use by
data.
third parties. Our intellectual property
framework also helps us avoid infringement
Our dedicated privacy teams report to senior
of third-party intellectual property rights,
management on data privacy risks and
supporting our consistent and effective
issues, and provide oversight for global data
management of intellectual property risk in
privacy programmes. We review data privacy
line with our risk appetite.
regularly at multiple governance forums,
including at Board level, to help ensure there
is appropriate oversight by senior executives.
Data privacy laws and regulations continue to
evolve globally. We continually monitor the
regulatory environment to ensure we respond
appropriately to any changes.
Responsible AI
Artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and other emerging technologies provide the opportunity to process
and analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies
offer significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for
the financial services industry and society as a whole. We have a set of principles to help
ensure we consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles for the
Ethical Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at www.hsbc.com/ai.
We continue to develop and enhance our approach to, and oversight of, AI, taking into
consideration the fast-evolving regulatory landscape, market developments and best practice.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 83
ESG
review
ESG review | Governance
Cybersecurity
The threat of a cyber incident remains a of the organisation. This includes but is not
concern for our organisation, as it does across limited to defined information security
the financial sector and other industries. As responsibilities for employees, contractors
cyber-threats continue to evolve, failure to and third parties, as well as standard
protect our operations may result in disruption procedures for cyber incident identification,
for our customers and our business, cause investigation, mitigation and reporting. We
financial loss or loss of sensitive data, and can operate a three lines of defence model,
have a negative impact on our customers’ and aligned to the enterprise risk management
our own reputation, among other risks. framework, to help oversight and challenge of
our cybersecurity capabilities and priorities.
We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical
Within the first line of defence, risk owners
events and changes to the cyber-threat
within global business and functions are
landscape and take proactive measures with
accountable for identifying and managing
the aim of reducing any impact on our
cyber risk. They work with cybersecurity
customers.
control owners to apply risk treatment in line
Prevent, detect and mitigate with our risk appetite. Our controls are Boosting gender
designed to be executed in line with our
We invest in business and technical controls to
policies and are reviewed and challenged by representation in
help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber
our risk stewards representing the second
threats. Our cybersecurity controls follow a cybersecurity
line of defence. They are independently
’defence in depth’ approach, leveraging
multiple security layers, and recognising the assured by the Global Internal Audit function, To help address barriers to opportunity,
complexity of our environment. Our ability to the third line of defence. HSBC Cybersecurity has been working to
detect and respond to attacks through round- increase the representation of women in
The assessment and management of our
the-clock security operations centre emerging talent via a variety of initiatives
cybersecurity risk is led and coordinated by a
capabilities is intended to help reduce the across 2024. These include:
Global Chief Information Security Officer
impact of attacks.
(‘CISO’). Our Global CISO has extensive – Sponsoring the CyberFirst Girls
Our cyber intelligence and threat analysis team experience in financial services, security and Competition for the second
proactively collects and analyses internal and resilience as well as strategy, governance, consecutive year, aimed at inspiring
external cyber information to continuously risk management and regulatory compliance. girls interested in technology to pursue
evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent The Global CISO is supported by regional and a career in cybersecurity.
attack types and their potential outcomes. We business-level CISOs. In the event of – Providing cybersecurity work-
actively participate in the broader cyber incidents, the Global CISO and relevant shadowing opportunities to
intelligence community, including by sharing supporting CISOs are informed and are undergraduates who are part of the
technical expertise in investigations, alongside engaged in alignment with our cybersecurity UK-based Women in Technology
others in the financial services industry and incident response protocols. programme.
government agencies around the world. – Cybersecurity colleagues have hosted
Key performance indicators, control
a range of events with university
effectiveness and other matters related to
In 2024, we continued our programme of students in Poland, Mexico, mainland
cybersecurity, including significant cyber
continual improvement to further strengthen China, India and the UK.
incidents, are presented on a regular basis to
our cyber defences and enhance our
various management risk and control
cybersecurity capabilities to help reduce the
committees including to Board committees,
likelihood and impact of unauthorised access,
the Group Risk Management Meeting and We host an annual Cyber Awareness Month
security vulnerabilities being exploited, data
across global businesses, functions and for all colleagues, covering topics such as
leakage, third-party security exposure and
regions. This is done to help ensure ongoing online safety at home, social media safety,
advanced malware. One key area of focus is
awareness and management of our safe hybrid working, and cyber incidents and
the increasing use of AI, which could be used
cybersecurity position. response. Our dedicated cybersecurity
to facilitate sophisticated cyber-attacks. We
training and awareness team also provides a
are enhancing governance processes to
Our cybersecurity capabilities are periodically wide range of education and guidance to both
manage potential cybersecurity risks, along
assessed against standards issued by the customers and our colleagues about how to
with accelerating the potential this
National Institute of Standards and Technology spot and prevent online fraud.
technology brings.
and by independent third parties, and we
proactively collaborate with regulators to
We work with third parties, including suppliers,
participate in regular testing activities. In
financial infrastructure bodies and other non-
addition, HSBC engages external independent
traditional third parties, in an effort to help
third parties to support our penetration and
reduce the threat of cyber-attacks impacting
threat-led penetration testing.
our business services.
Cyber training and awareness
We have a third-party security risk
We understand the important role our people
management process in place to assess,
play in protecting against cybersecurity
identify and manage the risks associated with
threats. Our aim is to equip every colleague
cybersecurity threats with supplier and other
with the appropriate tools and behaviours they
third-party relationships. The process includes
need to keep our organisation and customers’
risk-based cybersecurity due diligence reviews
data safe. We provide cybersecurity training
that assess third parties’ cybersecurity
and awareness to all our people, ranging from
programmes against our standards and
our top executives to IT developers to front-
requirements.
line branch staff around the world, and we
Policy and governance deliver targeted training to staff that are
We have a robust suite of cybersecurity identified as having elevated cyber risk
policies, procedures, and key controls to help exposure.
with the effective oversight and management
84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
