Creating Shared Value and
Sustainability Report 2022
Advancing regenerative food systems at scale
A message Contents
3 Our progress against
our commitments
4 Our approach
from our
10 On the road to net zero
15 Looking at the
whole landscape
Chairman 19 More regenerative
practices on farms
23 Protecting biodiversity
25 Regenerating the water cycle
and CEO
29 Ingredients produced
sustainably
33 Human rights and
resilient communities
37 Supporting tasty and
balanced diets
42 Food safety and quality
43 Packaging and circularity
Standing firm on our commitments. After years of progress, the recent rise in food insecurity
is deeply concerning. Our commitment to maintaining 47 Opportunities for
everyday basic food supplies and providing affordable young people
Facing last year’s challenges was difficult, but doing so
nutrition is unwavering. In 2022, we delivered
has only strengthened our resolve. Just as the COVID-19 51 Our diverse and
approximately 130 billion servings of affordable nutrition
pandemic began to ease, supply chain disruptions inclusive culture
fortified with at least one of the “big four” micronutrients:
worsened, inflation surged and energy shortages took
iron, iodine, vitamin A and zinc. 55 An employer of choice
hold. The invasion of Ukraine and its knock-on effects were
Nestlé CEO Mark 59 The foundations of
also felt around the world. Every business, community
Schneider (left)
With this report, Nestlé becomes the first company to
ethical business
and household faced tough choices in navigating our and Chairman Paul
disclose the nutritional value of its entire global portfolio.
Bulcke (right) in
turbulent world. We have benchmarked all in-scope products using the Vevey, Switzerland. 63 About this report
Health Star Rating (HSR) system – a nutrient profiling
Nestlé remains committed to nutrition, health and wellness.
system applied by the Access to Nutrition Initiative (ATNI)
The company has made great progress in reducing the
– and we have also disclosed sales from our wide range of companies benchmarked in ATNI’s Spotlight on Lobbying over the past fifteen years and, as these regulations are
sodium, sugar and saturated fat in its products over the
specialized nutrition products, which are not covered by the scorecard, released in December 2022. We aim to lead implemented, aim to continue our leadership in both
past decade and that work continues. At the same time, we
HSR system. the way, and do so in part, through our continued support transparency and performance. We invite you to read and
are working to advance regenerative food systems and help
for initiatives that seek to drive change, such as the enjoy this report and share your feedback with us.
address food security. Drawing on our strong foundation in
As a global company, we have a role to play in international UN Global Compact.
Creating Shared Value we focus our energy and resources
efforts to combat societal issues. In 2022, Nestlé experts
to make a positive impact at scale.
participated in discussions in support of the UN Treaty After the invasion of Ukraine, our focus has been on
on Plastic Pollution, the UN Climate Change Conference keeping our employees and their families safe, maintaining
Our greenhouse gas emissions have fallen below our 2018
(COP27) in Egypt, the UN Biodiversity Conference (COP15) our Ukrainian operations wherever possible and supporting Welcome to the Nestlé
baseline even as we have grown, demonstrating that we are
in Montreal and World Water Week, to name just a few. the Ukrainian people. Nestlé has committed more than Creating Shared Value and
making progress on our Net Zero Roadmap. This journey
While some may doubt our motives and question the level CHF 55 million to the people of Ukraine, including our Sustainability Report 2022.
is not without challenges – we source raw materials from
of corporate influence in international negotiations like recent CHF 40 million investment in a new production We report on the topics that are
hundreds of thousands of smallholder farmers who need
these, in reality, we are there to push for policymakers to facility, underlining our commitment to helping the most material to our stakeholders
customized technical assistance at a local level to help
make faster progress, raise standards and drive change country rebuild. and our business. In this report
them stay deforestation-free and make the transition to
across our industries. we cover our approach and
regenerative practices. We are supporting farmers through
New regulations mean that from 2024, our sustainability performance on each topic,
initiatives like the Nescafé Plan 2030 and our income
Our advocacy work is carried out in a responsible manner. reporting will no longer be a voluntary exercise. We are Paul Bulcke U. Mark Schneider supported with expert voices
accelerator program for cocoa-farming families.
We are pleased to rank first among 25 food and beverage proud to have been a leader in sustainability reporting Chairman Chief Executive Officer and case studies.
Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 2
Our progress We are aiming for our
coffee supply chain to be
assessed deforestation-free
by 2025.
against our
commitments
2022 data for KPIs on this page
are EY assured.
The EY limited assurance report
and conclusion can be found
at www.nestle.com/assurance-
statement
Our Reporting Scope and
Methodology for ESG KPIs
document provides details and
definitions and can be found here
About Nestlé
COMMITMENT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR 2020 2021 2022
Read more about independent
assurance of this report on
We aim to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 20% by 2025 and 50% by 2030 from Million tonnes of CO e reductions compared with business-as-
275 000 2 N/A -4.0 -6.42
page 63.
2018 levels, on the road to net zero by 2050 at the latest usual scenario1
Employees across
1. Our current KPI compares our GHG
all our operations We aim to achieve and maintain 100% assessed deforestation-free primary supply chains (for Percentage of our primary supply chains for meat, palm oil, pulp emissions in 2022 with a business-
N/A 97.2% 99.1%
meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar) by 2022 and 2025 for cocoa and coffee and paper, soy and sugar assessed as deforestation-free (%) as-usual scenario. We will report
reductions against our 2018 baseline and
188
progress toward our commitments in
We aim to source 20% of key ingredients through regenerative agriculture methods by 2025 Percentage of key ingredients sourced through future reports.
N/A N/A 6.8%
Countries we sell in
and 50% by 2030 regenerative agriculture methods3 (%) 2. A significant change in our calculation
methodology in 2022 means data for 2021
94.4 and 2022 are not comparable.
We aim to reduce water use in our factories by 6 million m3 between 2021 and 2023 Water use reduction in factories (million m3) -1.69 -2.30 -2.38 3. In 2022, only the following sources are
included in regenerative agriculture
Billion
volumes: fresh milk, Ecuadorian cocoa,
Group sales in CHF green coffee and Libby’s vegetables
sourced through direct procurement/
We aim for 100% of key ingredients volumes to be produced sustainably by 20304 Percentage of key ingredients produced sustainably (%) N/A 16.3% 22%5
Farmer Connect or for Nespresso, Nestlé
Nutrition cereals and vegetables that are
traceable back to a farm/cooperative level
Number of servings of affordable nutrition with micronutrient and raw materials that are covered by
120.0 128.66 129.2
the Living Soils initiative with Earthworm
fortification (MNF) (billions)
Foundation for Nestlé France. The
denominator includes all raw materials
By 2025, we aim to design above 95% of our plastic packaging for recycling in scope.
Percentage of plastic packaging designed for recycling7 (%) 74.8% 74.9% 81.9%
and continue to work toward 100% being recyclable or reusable 4. Key ingredients refers to 14 key
agricultural raw materials that cover 95%
of our annual sourcing by volume: cereals
and grains; cocoa; coconut; coffee; dairy;
By 2025, we aim to reduce virgin plastics by one third, versus our 2018 baseline Percentage virgin plastic reduction (versus 2018 baseline) (%) -4.0% -8.1% -10.5% fish and seafood; hazelnuts; meat, poultry
and eggs; palm oil; pulp and paper; soy;
spices; sugar; and vegetables.
By 2030, our ambition is to help 10 million young people around the world have access to Millions of young people around the world with access to 5. Change in definition in 2022 means
2.45 3.89 5.62
year-on-year data are not comparable.
economic opportunities economic opportunities since 2017
See Ingredients produced sustainably.
6. Number corrected to adjust for some
We aim to increase the proportion of women in our top 200+ senior executive positions to Percentage of women in the top 200+ senior products that were reclassified.
25.6% 27.2% 30.2%
30% by 2022 executive positions (%) 7. As per Ellen MacArthur
Foundation definitions.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 3
Our
Advancing regenerative
approach food systems
we stayed true to our course and, as we survey security and quality. In an external context, the
our progress to date, it is even clearer that we concept of a “just transition” was frequently
Rob Cameron
Global Head of Public Affairs are on the right path. Indeed, it is the only truly discussed during 2022 and at Nestlé we are
and ESG Engagement, Nestlé
pragmatic course to take. playing our part in the move from concept
to delivery.
Climate achievements
In terms of achievements during the year, No stone left unturned
As 2023 began, much of the northern our greenhouse gas emissions fell below Of course, emissions from some commodities
hemisphere was gripped by extreme weather. our 2018 baseline for the first time, despite such as dairy are higher than others. We are
Across North America a so-called “once in a company growth. Our emissions fell by 6.4 exploring – and deploying – a wide variety of
century freeze” spelt death and destruction million tonnes compared with a business-as- tools to make deep and rapid cuts in methane
for some, and chaos and disruption for usual-scenario, and we will endeavor to further emissions. Some stakeholders would have us
many. In Europe, extraordinary warmth reduce them, even as we grow. diversify from dairy altogether. That is not our
triggered a welcome fall in gas prices but saw way. The atmosphere makes no distinction
meteorological records tumble throughout At Nestlé, we recognize that immediate actions between who owns the source of emissions
the continent. Meanwhile, countries from and reductions are needed so we have taken and simply transferring ownership somewhere
Australia to Nigeria and Pakistan were still steps to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. else will not help. We are committed to
recovering from the devastating floods However, the greater part of our emissions is driving those emissions down and that is
experienced in 2022. Climate change is now from Scope 3 and this is where our promise to what we are doing.
a lived experience, not a future projection. For advance regenerative food systems at scale is
a company as dependent on agriculture as coming to life. We recognize that achieving net There was some welcome progress in the
Nestlé, this matters – greatly – and is why we zero is not possible unless there are actions international arena in 2022. While progress at
are so determined to play our part by reaching taken to fight deforestation and to restore the COP27 Climate Conference was less than
Rob
net zero no later than 2050. degraded forests and plant new trees. hoped for, it was far better than many had
Cameron
speaking feared. And the UN Biodiversity Conference
In last year’s report, we set out the case for at COP27 This is why we are so committed to our Forest agreement to protect and preserve 30% of the
in Egypt in
action to advance regenerative food systems. November Positive strategy. This strategy puts people at planet and 30% of degraded ecoystems by
Of course, 2022 saw many unexpected and 2022 on the center, with concern for livelihoods, land 2030 showed that international agreement is
regenerative
extreme challenges. Notwithstanding these, agriculture. rights and human rights. For maximum and possible, and we look forward to playing our
long-lasting impact, our actions must be taken part in delivering on this goal. The Uruguay
in a context that goes beyond the farmgate round of talks in pursuit of a legally binding
and into our broader sourcing landscape. global plastics treaty was another important
step forward on a highly complex issue. As a
At Nestlé, we are making it our
We also know that it is not possible for us final note, our presence at such international
to achieve net zero without fully scaling up events, along with many other like-minded
business to advance regenerative food
regenerative agriculture practices. We are businesses, is to encourage policymakers
systems at scale – our own resilience and adopting a similar, people-centric approach as to act. We want to see a “high-level playing
we have for forests by supporting farmers to field” and we will continue to raise our voice
success depend on it.
make the transition to regenerative agriculture. in pursuit of a just transition to a net zero and
During 2022, we worked closely with farmers regenerative food system. All of our advocacy
around the world to help them adopt practices activities are carried out in line with the aims
that will help store carbon in soil while and ambitions of the Paris Climate Agreement.
improving soil health, biodiversity, and water
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 4
Strategy overview Consumer appetite for change is accelerating, too. Our Nestlé viewpoint
reach means we have a unique opportunity to deliver on
Our purpose is to unlock the power of food to enhance
and drive up demand for sustainable, nutritious diets.
quality of life for everyone, today and for generations to The impact
This is why we are reformulating our products, rapidly
come. Creating Shared Value is the way we set out to
expanding our portfolio of plant-based choices and working
achieve this purpose. It is an approach to business that
with farmers to rethink every dimension of dairy to become
of our brands
seeks to be good for us, our shareholders, society and
net zero. Good food is at the center of our business, so
the planet. Our value creation strategy builds from this
we want to use the breadth of our products and brands
foundation in our product portfolio.
to make sustainable choices available and attractive to
everyone, everywhere.
A climate-centered approach
Even as we grow, we will continue to endeavor to drive
Elsewhere, Gerber is taking action to deliver waste-free
down our emissions and get to net zero. We aim to halve
The climate crisis is exacerbating the global food crisis. An
factories and carbon-neutral recipes, while Cerelac aims
our carbon footprint this decade from 2018 levels and will
unsustainable food system – responsible for up to a third Maureen Kingston
to source 100% of its key ingredients through regenerative
report our progress, transparently. To achieve that, we Global Marketing Strategy Lead
of the world’s emissions – is making the problem worse.
agriculture methods by 2030 – well ahead of our global
are working on transforming every aspect of our business
We must move rapidly to a better way of nourishing our
commitment of 50%.
– from switching our trucks to alternative fuels and our
growing population, equitably, affordably and sustainably.
factories to renewable electricity, to improving circular
How our brands are contributing to
It is exciting to see our brands taking ownership of their
packaging solutions that reduce plastic and can be more
This is why we want to accelerate the shift to regenerative
sustainability journeys and delivering meaningful impact.
easily recycled or reused. These transformations are not
farming in this decade. By 2030, we expect half of our our strategy.
just good for the climate: becoming a business that puts
key ingredient volumes will come from farms engaged
regeneration at the core of our company reduces our
in practices that enrich the soils, replenish natural water
Our brands play a critical role in delivering our global
costs and makes us more resilient – and this is good for
cycles and/or soak up carbon. Building on actions that
sustainability commitments. Each brand’s contribution is
Nestlé, too.
ensure our key supply chains are deforestation-free, we
unique, reflecting the differing sustainability challenges and
are applying this same regenerative mindset to help local
Our B Corp-certified brands opportunities that each category faces. Yet collectively, their
communities protect forests and restore ecosystems. We
efforts cumulate in our corporate sustainability impact.
In April 2022, Nespresso became B Corp-Certified, joining
want to help preserve the natural resources that all aspects
a global community of businesses that meet the highest
of life, food and our business rely on.
With this in mind, we have developed the Brand
standards of sustainability and social responsibility.
Contribution Framework, to help each brand identify the
Nestlé Health Sciences North America also achieved
The shift to regenerative farming will only succeed by
role they will play in helping us achieve our corporate
this certification in November. The move means that
putting farmers’ needs and aspirations at the center – this
goals. Our brands identify how they can best contribute
approximately 10% of Nestlé global sales are now
is not only fair, we believe it’s a condition for success. This
across three commitment areas: People, families and pets,
B-Corp certified.
means partnering with the more than 600 000 farmers
People and planet, and People in communities. Once
in our supply chain to share, develop and embed new
they have identified the topics within each area to focus on,
approaches together, while backing them up where needed
each brand makes a sustainability promise, with supporting
with the technical and financial help they need to start and
actions and indicators for measuring progress, and selects
sustain the journey. It also means respecting the rights
minimum one area where they want to lead the way in
of communities and indigenous peoples in the places our
comparison with their peers. The brands’ actions are then
ingredients come from. And we must go further – helping
brought to life through our packaging and communications,
farmers in the most climate-vulnerable regions to increase
to inform our consumers who increasingly are seeking to
their resilience, adapt to adverse weather, while paying
make sustainable choices.
them more for products they grow regeneratively, so their
families and communities also prosper from helping to
Brands in action
build a better food system.
There are plenty of examples among our well-known
brands. Purina PetCare has been working with farmers
in France to improve soil health and sequester carbon
since 2020. Nestlé Waters is working at a local level, from
national parkland in Spain to farmlands in Pakistan, to help
regenerate the local water cycle. The Nestlé Waters brands
don’t see regenerative practices as one element of their
sustainability promise, but as central to the entire effort.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 5
Governance Our governance structure
BOARD COMMITTEES
Sustainability Audit
Committee (SC) Committee (AC)
The SC reviews the The AC is informed
BOARD OF DIRECTORS Company’s sustainability of the content of our
agenda including the non-financial reporting
The board is responsible for the company’s strategy
measures which ensure and audit process of
and organization, including financial and non-financial
the Company’s long-term selected assured metrics.
reporting. This comprises identifying and enforcing
sustainability strategy
both statutory and internal disclosure rules on ESG
and its ability to create
matters, particularly where ESG risks may affect
shared value.
the Company’s performance.
Sound governance is integral to building deforestation, plastic packaging designed for recycling,
reduction of water use in factories, affordable nutrition with
trust and maintaining our license to
micronutrients and the global youth initiative. Full details of
EXECUTIVE BOARD CREATING SHARED VALUE (CSV) COUNCIL
board-level remuneration and bonuses are available in our
operate. It is a cornerstone of our ability
Compensation Report.
The Company’s Executive Board is responsible for the The CSV Council is an external advisory body
to create shared value.
execution of the Company’s sustainability strategy, that advises senior management on a range of
The ESG and Sustainability Council oversees our
which includes the handling of the mandatory sustainability issues.
sustainability strategy. The Council is chaired by our
reporting obligations, with delegation to the ESG and
Our governance structure reflects our purpose, enables
Executive Vice President (EVP) Head of Strategic
Sustainability Council.
our strategy, and supports our commitments. Our
Business Units and Marketing and Sales. The Council
environmental, social, governance (ESG) and sustainability
has the following workstreams: 2050 Net Zero,
strategy is at the heart of our decision-making. Our
Sustainable Packaging, Water, Sustainable Sourcing
sustainability agenda and performance is reviewed by the
and Communications and Advocacy. The structure helps
Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors.
to accelerate and standardize decision-making on a
global level. ESG & SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL ZONES &
The Board of Directors, which includes 12 independent
MARKET
members, along with the Chairman, CEO and Executive The ESG and Sustainability Council provides strategic
In 2022, the Council welcomed three new members – the MANAGEMENT
Board, is responsible for supervising our Creating Shared leadership and execution support, and drives the
Head of Zone North America and the Head of Zone Greater
Value strategy and program. Executive Board remuneration implementation of Nestlé’s sustainability strategy, Management is
China, as Nestlé added two new geographical Zones to
Sound governance
is linked to ESG indicators. ESG objectives (15% of the including our 2050 Net Zero Roadmap, ensuring focus responsible for
underpins sustainability its management structure, and the Deputy EVP and Chief
target) are annually set by the Compensation Committee performance. Shown here, and alignment. ensuring the provision
Communications Officer. The Council meets every month
our Chairman addressing
and reflect selected performance measures from the of relevant data
stakeholders for our and regularly reports to the full Executive Board.
Nestlé ESG/Sustainability agenda. For 2022, they relate to 2022 AGM. Five workstreams: for the Group non-
– 2050 Net Zero financial reporting,
We monitor our Creating Shared Value and sustainability
– Sustainable Packaging and for complying
performance against key performance indicators using an
– Water with the non-financial
internal dashboard. Performance data are generated on a
– Sustainable Sourcing reporting obligations
quarterly basis and progress is reviewed by the ESG and
– Communications and Advocacy at local level.
Sustainability Council.
For full details of our governance structure, see our latest Key:
Corporate Governance Report.
Board level
ESG STRATEGY & DEPLOYMENT UNIT
Nestlé executive
Ensures execution, monitors external developments,
and defines KPIs in support of Nestlé’s sustainability External advisory
strategy. Coordinates sustainability activities and has the
Approves
oversight of internal ESG data and external disclosures.
It also advises Nestlé’s ESG and Sustainability Council.
Reports
Advises
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 6
Our material topics
tnemnorivne
eht
dna
elpoep
no
éltseN
fo
tcapmI
rojaM
Health and nutrition
Water management
Environmental & social
Ecological impacts impacts of ingredient
supply chain
GHG emissions*
Product quality & safety
tnacfiingiS
Circular economy
Employee health Customer satisfaction
& safety
Human rights &
Physical impacts of labor practices
climate change* Packaging lifecycle
Employee acquisition, management
Access & affordability talent management &
Product labeling &
retention***
marketing Employee engagement,
diversity & inclusion**
etaredoM
Systemic risk Changing consumption
management patterns
Critical risk Animal welfare Business ethics Business models &
management
innovation & technology Air emissions Community relations
Management of the Cybersecurity & legal & regulatory
information security
environment
elbigilgeN
Materiality matrix
The following chapters
and accompanying reports
provide more details on each 14
9
material topic:
10
8
Advancing regeneration
7
1 2 3 4
18
It is critical to identify our key risks and The topics identified as among the most important by both
On the road to net zero
internal and external stakeholders are:
5 6 7
material issues. By understanding which
– Health and nutrition
19 Protecting biodiversity
– Environmental and social impacts of the ingredient
topics impact our stakeholders and 22 28 8
supply chain
12 Regenerating the water cycle
business the most, we can determine – Water management 6
20 9 – Ecological impacts
23
where our focus should be. – Greenhouse gas emissions 15 Ingredients produced
sustainably
– Product quality and safety 16
10 11 – Packaging lifecycle management 21
The world constantly changes. We need to stay on top of
Human rights and
those changes and how they can affect our stakeholders
resilient communities
Since 2020, ecological impacts (affecting natural resources,
and our operations. Specifically, we need to identify
2 12 13 biodiversity and ecosystems) and circular economy were 17
where Nestlé has the greatest impact on society and the Supporting tasty and
among the topics to have gained importance for both
environment. We also need to know which topics have the 11 24 3 balanced diets 29
internal and external stakeholders. All these topics are
greatest potential to influence our business success. This is 5 13 14 15 16 17
covered in this report. 25 why we carry out a comprehensive materiality assessment 27 Food safety and quality
at least every two years. 18
Packaging and circularity
Risk management In 2022, we worked with an independent third party to
19 20
conduct desk research and interviews with 55 internal and
At a Group level, our approach to risk is aligned to our Our diverse and inclusive culture
external stakeholders. The desk research identified 29 short- 4 Organizational set-up
purpose, with a focus on operational, strategic, compliance 1 Governance structures and efficiency 21
and long-term material topics that were then explored during
and reputational risk across our financial and non- & mechanisms 2 6 Data privacy An employer of choice
the interviews. The external stakeholders included suppliers,
management
financial landscapes. A risk assessment at Group level is
22 23
investors, customers, non-governmental organizations and
conducted annually.
The foundations of
business associations. Internally, they included executive
ethical business
board members, functional heads and market heads. Their Negligible Moderate Significant Major
ESG topics are built into our ERM process. This helps
24 25 26 27
respective tasks were to classify Nestlé’s impact on each
to ensure that the full range of sustainability topics are
Importance and impact on Nestlé’s business success Annual Review
topic and each topic’s impact on Nestlé.
incorporated into the risks and opportunities that are
28 29
* Chapters Looking at the whole landscape and More
considered across the company.
regenerative practices on farms also cover this topic. TCFD Report
The process was overseen by the ESG and Sustainability
** An Employer of choice also covers this topic.
6
Council and the outcomes were reviewed by the *** Opportunities for young people also covers this topic.
Risks relating to the environmental and social impact of
Sustainability Committee of the Board. The results are
the supply chain, including exposure to human rights
Our materiality process
helping us identify risks and opportunities and adjust our
risks, are reviewed at Group management level. There is
strategies and priorities accordingly.
also a detailed supplier risk program in the procurement
function. If required, cases relating to our risk assessment
Material Establish Stakeholder Materiality Review Publish in
processes are escalated to the Executive Board and related
Materiality assessment results
findings are reflected in decision-making processes at an
topics external engagement assessment strategies CSV and
operational and strategic level.
The results of our 2022 materiality assessment are
selection context Sustainability
supporting decisions on where to focus our resources.
As a business leader, we are committed to transparency
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is the process of
Report
and action on climate-related risks and opportunities.
identifying and addressing risk. The full alignment of our
As such, we have aligned our reporting with the
materiality and ERM processes help give us essential short-
recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related
and long-term visibility on key topics. Sustainability AI software analysis and 55 interviews conducted Quantitative Identify risks and Share results internally
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Our TCFD-aligned Accounting Standards analysis of environment and surveys collected and qualitative opportunities in results and externally
Board (SASB) aligned input assessed and adjust priorities
disclosures, including our analysis undertaken in 2022, can
material topics selected accordingly
be found in our 2022 Climate Risk and Impact report.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 7
Stakeholder Examples of engagement in 2022
engagement
Employees Suppliers Consumers Customers Investors and analysts
How did we engage? How did we engage? How did we engage? How did we engage? How did we engage?
– Regular internal – Periodic supplier meetings – Brand campaigns – Regular leadership meetings – Annual General Meeting
communication campaigns and workshops – Key opinion leader labs – Nestlé Net Zero Roadmap – Regular investor meetings and
– Regular forums and – Regular safety training – Site visits and open days communications investor days
panel events for contractors – Annual Nestlé CSV & – Forum and panel events – Regular analyst calls
– Regular surveys and webinars – Annual conferences Sustainability Report – Workshops on joint – Periodic Chairman’s
– Periodic performance and – Periodic audits and – Interaction via social sustainability roadmaps Roundtables
Considering external feedback is development reviews assessments media channels – Annual Nestlé CSV &
– Collective action for employees Key topics covered? Sustainability Report
fundamental to our approach.
Key topics covered? Key topics covered? – Nestlé Net Zero Roadmap
Key topics covered? – Advancing regenerative food – Connecting brand sustainability and commitments Key topics covered?
We engage with stakeholders at a local, regional, national – Corporate strategy and systems at scale plans with key opinion leaders – Brand and category – Company performance
and international level. When doing so, we apply the workplace culture – Human rights and labor rights – Company performance sustainability strategies and results
Nestlé Corporate Business Principle of “transparent – Employee and management – Internal and external and strategy – Recyclable or – Business development, goals
interaction and communication” to foster collaboration, performance, staff welfare stakeholder performance – Sustainability performance reusable packaging and forecasts
knowledge sharing, open discussion and deep dialogue. and benefits and strategy – Alternative delivery systems – Company sustainability
– Sustainability and regeneration What did we do? (refill and reuse) strategy performance,
Our stakeholder universe is large and varied and we engage – Internal and external reporting – Piloted the Child Risk What did we do? – Plant-based and development and outlook,
with our stakeholders in many different ways. However, of non-compliance concerns Assessment Framework toolkit – Held a stakeholder engagement “Better for you” options including environmental,
each project, launch, collaboration, campaign and event and questions with a supplier in 2021 and initiative with key opinion social and governance issues
has a common purpose: to help advance regenerative food completed the pilot in 2022 leaders before the launch of What did we do? and commitments
Nestlé employees speaking at
systems at scale. a workshop at COP27 in Egypt What did we do? – Took part in and sponsored the the Nescafé Plan 2030 – the – Responded to sustainability – Implications of climate
in November 2022, on efforts
– Ran Employee Resource Sustainable Brands Conference feedback was used to refine the requests including through change, COVID-19 and
to advance regenerative food
Throughout the year, we also consult regularly with our systems at scale. Groups focused on people with in San Diego, United States, final details EcoVadis and CDP geo-political issues
CSV Council, an external advisory council established disabilities, such as THRIVE where we shared our progress – Engaged consumers, media – Nestlé Professional organized a
in 2009 and formed of a group of experts from a broad – Continued to create an on advancing regenerative food and partners to amplify a LinkedIn webinar about Nescafé What did we do?
range of fields, from corporate responsibility, strategy and open culture and dialogue systems at scale, focusing on dialogue around diversity and Plan 2030 for its out-of-home – Engaged with the investment
sustainability to nutrition, water and rural development. around disability with our our Nescafé, Libby’s and Gerber inclusion with Nestlé Canada, customers and provided a community through our
The Council has an advisory role. In 2022, topics discussed NestAbility network brands in particular KitKat Chocolatory and Friends specific social media toolkit Annual General Meeting and
included implementation of the Nestlé packaging vision – Promoted the inclusion of – Launched the Nescafé Plan of Ruby and website banners; over 500 regular investor meetings and
and commitments, progress on our Net Zero Roadmap people with disabilities through 2030 as an online webinar. – Communicated Generation people attended the webcast analyst calls
and regenerative agriculture commitments, the roll out membership of the ILO Global Over 1000 registrants were in Regeneration proof points – Nestlé was recognized as a – Held Chairman’s Roundtables
of our income accelerator program and our commitment Business and Disability Network attendance – including suppliers related to our promise to Giga-Guru partner – a supplier virtually and face-to-face
to provide transparency on the nutritional value of the and signing The Valuable – Worked with an independent advance regenerative food with a SMART goal and during the year with
Nestlé portfolio. The Council also discussed how to 500 commitment to elevate third party to interview systems at scale publicly reported emissions investors in Germany, Japan,
develop our sustainability reporting in light of incoming disability inclusion to our 55 internal and external reductions – under Walmart’s Singapore, Switzerland and
regulatory requirements. leadership agenda stakeholders as part of our Project Gigaton the United Kingdom
– Continued to raise awareness materiality assessment. – Built joint roadmaps and action
In 2022, we were pleased to be ranked first among of Speak Up, our internal and These included suppliers plans together with customers,
25 food and beverage companies benchmarked in the external reporting channel for and customers unlocking synergies.
ATNI’s Spotlight on Lobbying scorecard, released in non-compliance concerns and – World Water Week panel event – Continued partnership testing of
December 2022. Nestlé received the highest score for questions. The global rollout and engagement with suppliers refill-and-reuse delivery systems
its policy commitments and management systems, and of the channel was completed and scalable business models
the second highest score for disclosures. during the year
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 8
Governments, international Global partnerships Industry associations Academia and the science Farmers, local communities
organizations, NGOs How did we engage? How did we engage? community and young people
How did we engage? – Developed new partnerships – Development initiatives How did we engage? How did we engage?
– Participation at the 27th – Participated in global events – Regular forums and – The World Food Forum – Income accelerator
Conference of the Parties to panel events – Regular stakeholder program launch
the United Nations Framework Key topics covered? – Annual conferences consultations – Nescafé 2030 Plan
Convention on Climate Change – Plastics use and – Regular communication – Nestlé International – Pilot projects for farmers
Our global partnership with Community engagement
(COP27) and the United Nations tackling pollution campaigns Nutrition Symposium – Development initiatives World Central Kitchen helps
provide meals for people
Biodiversity Conference (COP15) – Corporate responsibility, – Forums and panel events Nestlé has been engaged in giving programs since our
facing catastrophic events.
event in Montreal strategy and sustainability Key topics covered? Key topics covered? – Community engagement foundation over 150 years ago. Today, improving access to
– Supporting the UN Treaty on – Nutrition, water and – Corporate climate action – Transforming food and investment healthier foods, as well as providing relief to people and
Plastic Pollution negotiations rural development – Safeguarding natural resources innovation through science communities during disasters, helps support what we do.
– Participation at UN General – Emergency relief – Employee health and well-being and collaboration Key topics covered? In 2022, we donated more than CHF 120 million, and most
Assembly Week in New York – Present and future – Farmer agronomy support of our contributions were related to food access.
What did we do? What did we do? nutrition challenges – Net zero in dairy
Key topics covered? – Entered a global partnership – Continued to work with the – Preserving nutritional goodness – Economic opportunities In Ukraine, since the invasion, our focus has been on
– Food system issues and with World Central Kitchen, World Business Council for from farm to fork for young people keeping our employees and their families safe, maintaining
climate change a non-profit organization that Sustainable Development on our operations wherever possible, as well as supporting
– Regenerative agriculture specializes in providing meals corporate climate action What did we do? What did we do? the people of Ukraine. In 2022, Nestlé committed a
– “Water positive” development for people who have been – Provided ongoing support to – Co-organized with Swiss Food – Launched our innovative CHF 40 million investment for a new production facility and
– Plastics pollution affected by catastrophic events. the International Chamber of & Nutrition Valley an official side income accelerator program, more than CHF 14 million in contributions to the people of
– Biodiversity – Entered the Business Coalition Commerce and Business for event during the FAO Science with a digital stakeholder event, Ukraine, together with the International Federation of Red
for a Global Plastics Treaty, Nature in calling for strong and Innovation Forum. The attended by 470 participants Cross and Red Crescent Societies. We have provided more
What did we do? to support the development action by policymakers to focus was transforming food from 44 countries than 4200 tonnes of food donations through various local
– Worked with the Government of an ambitious, effective safeguard natural resources innovation through science – Continued to offer farmers close and international partner organizations. With the UkraiNEST
of Egypt to help journalists and legally binding UN treaty – Continued to work with the and collaboration agronomy support and worked Foundation, we organized an employee fundraising to
understand food systems to end plastic pollution. The Consumer Goods Forum, as a – Carried out consultations with directly with them on various restore the homes of our colleagues in the country.
issues ahead of COP27. We also coalition is convened by the member of the Employee Health global health experts to gather pilot projects. This includes
sponsored pavilions and stands. Ellen MacArthur Foundation and Well-being working group. insights on present and future our international network of In June 2022, Nestlé entered a global partnership with
Nestlé’s Head of Operations and WWF and supported by – Worked with the CEO Water nutrition challenges and inform 14 R+D Accelerators World Central Kitchen, a non-profit organization that
spoke on accelerating strategic NGO partners Mandate and WASH4Work our nutrition approach – Gave farmers a platform specializes in providing meals for people who have been
the transition to resilient – Hosted more than 20 for their voices to be heard affected by catastrophic events. Nestlé has supported
food systems leading scientists at the at COP27 World Central Kitchen in an initial one-year agreement and
– Took part in a panel event Nestlé International Nutrition – Created the Youth with a CHF 1 million donation to its Climate Disaster Fund.
during World Water Week Symposium to assess scientific Entrepreneurship Platform, or During the year, we engaged with World Central Kitchen to
in Stockholm, where the evidence on preserving YEP, a single, online location support various communities stricken by extreme weather
UN Water Mandate and the nutritional goodness from where young people can events related to the climate crisis, including those affected
“water positive” concept farm to fork discover the wide range of help by floods in Pakistan, as well hurricanes Fiona and Ian in
were discussed we can offer to bring innovation Puerto Rico and the United States.
– Called for leaders to create to life
a global framework to Our offices and 344 factories around the world support
tackle plastic pollution their local communities in many ways, including through
through the World Economic job creation and economic growth. They also organize
Forum ahead of the UN charitable activities, including support for events in and
Nestlé sponsored stands
Environment Assembly and pavillions at COP27. around Vevey, Switzerland, home to our headquarters.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 9
On the road NET ZERO ROADMAP
Progress on our roadmap to 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions
by 2025 and 50% reduction by 2030 and net zero by 2050
2018 baseline (million tonnes of CO e)
6.4
2
to net zero
110 Peak carbon Million tonnes of CO e reductions compared
2
with business-as-usual scenario
100 99.7* Business-as-usual scenario
93.3 Actual emissions
90 94.3* 68% 28% 4%
2018 baseline Ingredient Manufacturing Packaging
80 sourcing
70
60
50
Key initiatives
40 delivering GHG
emissions reductions
30
in 2022
20
10
0
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
Net Zero Roadmap launched
GHG EMISSIONS RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY
Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions Renewable electricity sourced
(million tonnes of CO e) in all our sites at year end (%)
2
Scope 1 2020 2021 2022 50.5% in 2020
(emitted directly)
121.52* 120.62* 63.7% in 2021
Scope 2
116.59 115.83 78.4% in 2022
(emitted indirectly 112.90
market-based) 108.90
Scope 3
(in scope for
Net Zero Roadmap) 2018 baseline:
In scope for Net Zero Roadmap
Scope 3
(not in scope for
Net Zero Roadmap)
100%
by 2025
Climate change is already here.
1.63 1.44 0.76
Urgent action is needed. At Nestlé,
3.30 3.35 3.24
we have put peak carbon behind us
SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
and are driving down emissions in our
operations and supply chain.
* Restated due to acquisitions, divestures, emissions factor
restatements and adjusted scope.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 10
Background Scope 3 emissions: Nestlé’s Forest Positive strategy and Nestlé viewpoint This allows us to recognize and reward the more
Regenerative Agriculture Framework. progressive farmers that have already made the necessary
Climate change is no longer a future concern. It is
transition. At the same time, we recognize the huge
already here. In 2022, much of the northern hemisphere Climate-smart
Alongside the focus on Scope 3, we are working to challenge farmers in country B face and continue to provide
experienced extreme heat, drought and wildfires.
systematically reduce emissions in Scopes 1 and 2, by technical and financial support to bring their methods up
Hurricanes battered North America and the Caribbean.
reducing the carbon footprint of our factories and fleet cars. to where our industry needs them to be. It’s a two-fold
sourcing
Devastating flooding hit Nigeria and Pakistan and Asia was
approach – a fair reward mechanism and a just transition –
affected by heavy typhoons. Meanwhile, data from NASA
that underpins how much volume we shift and to where.
shows that global temperatures have increased by up to
1.01°C since pre-industrial times. What is less well known
Harder in practice
perhaps – sea levels are over 10cm higher than in 1993,
While that sounds simple in theory, in practice it’s not
the ocean is more than three times as hot as it was in 1980
straightforward. Our decisions need to be backed up by
and arctic sea ice has shrunk by an average of 12.6% every
accurate emissions data mapped at farm level. And while
decade since 1979.
Benjamin Ware we already collect and validate this with our suppliers for
Head of Climate Change and
dairy, cocoa, coffee and palm oil, there’s still work to do.
Sustainable Sourcing
Food system topics such as land-use change, agricultural
production, packaging and waste management are linked
Additionally, in many places, we have pre-agreed volume
to up to one-third of global greenhouse gas emissions. At
commitments upon which people’s livelihoods depend.
the same time, the effects of climate change have already How shifts in sourcing can reduce our
Clearly, economic viability and security of supply still
begun to impact food systems. Altered weather patterns
factor in purchasing decisions. And let’s not forget taste –
carbon footprint.
are affecting growing seasons and making crop yields less
different regions often grow different varieties of a crop that
predictable, while increases in extreme weather such as
can taste slightly different and impact recipes.
droughts and floods are threatening food security. Around the world farmers are at different stages of the
Production of Brominata™, Innovation to tackle transition toward regenerative agriculture practices. One
Despite these challenges, shifting sourcing in this way is
a red seaweed-based
We must continue to act to help avoid the worst potential way we can reduce our footprint is by switching more
feed supplement with farm emissions already underway, as exemplified by the total volume of our
climate scenarios and protect vulnerable communities, potential to decrease volumes to suppliers, cooperatives and farmers in countries
commodities now coming from assessed deforestation-free
enteric methane production
including those whose livelihoods depend on agriculture. When dairy cows digest their feed they produce methane, of origin that already have regenerative agriculture practices
by ruminants. verified origins or certified as sustainably produced. This
which has a far greater global warming potential than in place – while helping farmers in other regions to make
accounts for 25% of the Scope 3 emissions saved through
CO . So-called “enteric fermentation” is the largest source the shift as well, supporting a just transition.
implementation of our Net Zero Roadmap.
2
Approach of emissions in fresh milk production, followed by feed
production and manure. The bulk of our carbon footprint is already present when
For more information on climate-related risks and
In 2020, we launched our Net Zero Roadmap, a Science
we purchase raw materials such as dairy, coffee, cocoa,
opportunities, see our Climate Risk and Impact report.
Based Targets initiative (SBTi)-aligned plan to reduce
Working with external partners, we are exploring the use palm oil and meat. Packaging and shipping are much
Nestlé’s emissions. It has enabled us to put peak carbon
of novel feed supplements, wearable devices, improved less significant – only a fraction of the carbon footprint
emissions behind us and make progress toward our
nutrition and immunological approaches that decrease compared with how the raw material is produced. This
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets for 2025
enteric methane production, but do not negatively impact means selecting ingredients produced using climate-smart
(20% reduction) and 2030 (50% reduction).
the yield of nutritious and safe milk or animal welfare and practices can make a significant difference, even if they are
health. For example, in the United States, we are facilitating shipped from further away.
Because climate intersects every part of our company, it
research to assess the efficacy and the human, animal and
forms one of the five workstreams of our ESG Strategy and
environmental health and safety aspects of a seaweed- A reward mechanism
Deployment Unit.
based feed supplement, which has the potential to reduce Let’s take coffee beans as a hypothetical example. Imagine
enteric methane emissions significantly. that well-established farmers in country A are already
A detailed analysis of our GHG emissions, carried out when
practicing agroforestry, such as intercropping trees for
setting our 2018 baseline, showed that 95% of our footprint
In parallel, we are looking at scientific approaches to timber with coffee trees and employing smart irrigation
was made up of Scope 3 emissions from activities in our
reduce emissions related to manure management and techniques. Meanwhile, farmers in country B have focused
supply chain such as farming and land use, and just 5%
feed production. We test and validate these innovative on amplifying monoculture-intensive coffee production but
was Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our own operations.
technologies in our research farm network prior to rolling have not yet embraced sustainable measures.
Dairy and livestock ingredients are our largest single source
them out in our supply chains. For example, in the United
of emissions – dairy alone accounts for one-third of our
States, we are rolling out vermicomposting, which uses If the carbon data show that a unit of coffee from country A
total emissions.
worms to naturally degrade manure with lower methane has a carbon footprint of 3kg, while the same amount from
production – replacing the need to capture and store the country B has a carbon footprint of 5kg, then by shifting
To make progress toward our net zero commitment, we
gas. The worms also remove up to 99% of wastewater bigger volumes to country A, we can notably reduce our
focus primarily on our upstream supply chain including our
contaminants and generate castings that can be used as carbon footprint.
dairy and livestock sourcing. We have developed two main
fertilizer to improve soil health. This practice targets one of
Sourcing from locations already implementing practices such
strategic approaches upstream that will help tackle our
the largest sources of emissions on many dairy farms. as agroforestry can reduce our carbon footprint.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 11
Scope 1 and 2 emissions coffee grounds (from capsule recycling) and other locally
All of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are being addressed as produced industrial organic waste to convert into renewable
part of our Net Zero Roadmap, and our actions contribute energy. The electricity produced is injected into the Swiss
to our absolute emissions reductions. grid, while part of the heat is valorized at the Henniez
factory. The bottling site used 74% of renewable energy in
We continued to make progress toward our commitment to 2022. A liquid by-product of the process serves as a highly
source 100% renewable electricity across our sites globally efficient and odorless organic fertilizer and is recovered and
by 2025, reaching 78.4% renewable electricity sourced used by the contributing farmers.
in our manufacturing sites in 2022 (2021: 63.7%). Our
factories in Australia, India, Indonesia, New Zealand, South As part of our Net Zero Roadmap, we committed to
Africa, Thailand and Vietnam increased their purchases switching our global car fleet to lower emissions options by
Performance The Nestlé Waters of renewable electricity this year. In Europe, 93% of our 2022. At the end of the year, 41% of our fleet had switched
“glass train”,
factories were running on 100% renewable electricity. The to lower-emissions options. We compensated emissions
to return Vittel
In 2022, our GHG emissions remained decoupled from
and S.Pellegrino majority of the renewable electricity we use is generated from the remaining 59% that we could not switch, mainly
business growth, as we again achieved higher revenues bottles, marks a offsite by third-party suppliers. In addition to the 78.4% as a result of a lack of available vehicles and infrastructure
new step toward
and lower absolute emissions. Our total absolute Scope 1,
more sustainable of renewable electricity sourced, we currently have onsite in some markets. We will seek to increase the proportion
2 and 3 GHG emissions reduced from 120.6 million* in 2021 transport. generation at nine factories in Europe and the Middle East, of lower-emission vehicles in our fleet as availability and
to 112.9 million in 2022.
and this may expand in the future. infrastructure improves.
As per our SBTi approved roadmap, our in-scope
In North America, Nestlé completed its second large-scale As part of our ongoing Green Fleet Project, the shift to
emissions have now reduced by 6.4 million tonnes to
solar energy farm investment. Combined, the solar energy electric, biofuel, hybrid or plug-in hybrid vehicles continued
93.3 million tonnes compared with a projected business-
farms will represent nearly 50% of Nestlé’s electricity in in 2022, with our Green Fleet increasing from 27.2% in 2021
as-usual scenario of 99.7 million tonnes. In addition, actual
the United States, thereby halving its Scope 2 greenhouse to 41.0% of our entire corporate fleet. Meanwhile, we rolled
emissions of 93.3 million tonnes have fallen below our Dairy is our largest Scope 3 emissions
gas emissions. out electric trucks in Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden and
single source of Scope 3
2018 baseline of 94.3 million tonnes for the first time since In line with SBTi guidance, our total reported Scope 3
Switzerland, along with hydrogen trucks in Switzerland. emissions – something we
introducing our Net Zero Roadmap, despite revenue growth are hoping to tackle with emissions include some categories that are not currently
Some factories are also switching to renewable sources
pilot farms.
over the same four-year period. Emissions reductions are 6.4 of thermal energy. In Indonesia, one factory has switched Energy consumption covered by our SBTi-aligned GHG emissions reduction
the result of a wide range of projects in our agricultural target. These emissions accounted for less than 33% of
from fossil fuels to locally supplied rice-husk-based biofuel. 2020 2021 2022
supply chains, as well as in our factories. All reductions Million tonnes of Scope 3 emissions in the 2018 baseline. These include
A second factory is expected to complete the switch in Energy consumption 81 385 568 82 779 476 80 131 120
CO e reductions
associated with a project meet the accounting principles set (Gigajoules) consumer use of sold products, purchased services, leased
2 2023. We have introduced industrial heat pumps replacing
compared with
out in the GHG Protocol Corporate and Project standards. the use of fossil fuels in La Penilla, Spain, saving 2000 Energy consumed that is 23.1 25.3 30.6 41.0% assets, capital goods and investments. As a result, our total
business-as- renewable energy (%)
Scope 3 emissions reported for 2022 (108.9 million tonnes)
tonnes of CO e, per year, and in Konolfingen and Orbe
usual scenario
We are proud of our progress but know there is more to do 2 Energy consumed that was 12.2 10.2 6.0 Global fleet switched are higher than the Scope 3 emissions that fall within our
in Switzerland, saving 1000 tonnes of CO e per year. Our supplied from grid electricity (%)
to reduce our absolute emissions on our way to net zero 2 to lower-emission SBTi-aligned target (89.3 million tonnes).
4.3 Nestlé Waters facility in Henniez, Switzerland, works with a
options (27.2% in
by 2050 at the latest. We are still adapting our approach
third-party biogas plant, which collects manure, Nespresso
2021, 17.6% in 2020)
in response to what we learn. Many of our emissions Million tonnes of Dairy ingredients are our single largest source of Scope 3
reduction projects will take time to implement but we CO e removals emissions. We are working with leading universities and
2
remain confident they will yield results to keep us on track. secured in 2022 NGOs to support net zero efforts in dairy farming around
the world (see the Making swiss dairy a climate star case
10.7
In addition to these emissions reduction projects, study). This includes investing in at least 25 pilot farms in
we secured 4.3 million tonnes of CO e removals by 15 countries to test scalable, low-carbon and regenerative
2 Million tonnes of
implementing nature-based solutions that transfer agriculture practices that may help those farms achieve net
CO e reductions
2
CO e from the atmosphere into carbon stores. Our net zero GHG emissions.
achieved compared
2
zero commitment does not rely on offsetting. These with a business-as-
removals take place within our supply chains and the usual scenario, and Currently, we have one pilot farm in South Africa that aims
landscapes where we source our raw materials, and help removals secured to achieve net zero in the near future, and another in the
restore forests, wetlands and peatlands, or improve land in 2022 United States aiming for net zero by 2025. Twenty-three
management. Secured removals are the total carbon that other pilot farms are investigating exciting possibilities
will be captured and stored (e.g. in trees or soils) over the to support net zero efforts. In Spain, we are engaging
20- or 30-year lifetime of a project. Every year, we will track with more than 200 dairy farmers to implement emission
the actual carbon removal and storage across our value reduction practices, which are aimed at reducing their
chain in the reporting period (known as delivered removals footprint by 40% by 2026. In the UK, since 2015 we have
* Restated due to Nestlé’s large-scale
or ex-post carbon accounting). These removals will be acquisitions, divestures, solar energy investments worked with more than 70 farmers to plant more than
emissions factor will provide nearly half
reported as progress in line with the SBTi FLAG guidance 42 kilometers of hedgerows and protected more than
restatements and our electricity in the
(released November 2022). adjusted scope. United States. 40 kilometers of rivers and streams.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 12
We use the Cool Farm Tool – an external online GHG, water Food loss and waste Advocacy
and biodiversity calculator to help companies calculate the Food loss and waste are unacceptable, though difficult Throughout 2022, we continued to advocate for ambitious
environmental footprint of their agricultural raw materials – to tackle in practice. They accounted for around 670 000 government policies and private sector leadership to
for key ingredients including dairy. The tool, already being tonnes of CO e in our 2018 baseline study. While this is a encourage all sectors to move quickly toward rapid and
2
used to capture primary data in Brazil and Colombia, has very low proportion of our total emissions, we aim to reduce sustained emissions reductions. Examples include:
now been rolled out to seven new origins. food loss and waste at every stage of our value chain. – Working with the World Business Council for Sustainable
Development on corporate climate action and furthering
We also continued our work to lower carbon emissions In 2022, we joined an industry-wide pledge in partnership discussions around issues such as nature and plastics at
associated with our logistics: with the Swiss authorities to halve food loss and waste Climate Week NYC 2022.
– Nestlé is investing over CHF 100 million by 2030 in low- by 2030. We also became a Waste Warrior Brand to help – Advocating for the inclusion of food systems at COP27,
carbon logistics for our three international water brands: prevent food loss and waste at a consumer level. In the UK, alongside a range of stakeholders and other companies.
S. Pellegrino, Acqua Panna and Perrier. together with major UK supermarkets and organizations, We hosted discussions in Sharm El Sheikh on topics
– In France, Nestlé Waters launched new rail routes for we signed similar world-leading government pledges to such as ensuring a just transition in food and agriculture
Perrier, saving an estimated 11 400 tonnes of CO e per help halve food waste by 2030. We make use of agricultural and encouraging a new generation of farmers into
2
year by the end of 2022. The business is also working side streams (e.g. in Nescafé Nativ Cascara), recover food the profession.
Product portfolio and packaging Nestlé is expanding its
with partners to roll out a hydrogen-powered train route waste in factories to use as biofuel and work with farmers – Publicly supporting the Business for Nature campaign for
range of plant-based
Our recipe decisions for new and established products
in France by 2025. This route will help reduce CO e by an choices. Pictured here: and consumers to minimize waste. mandatory disclosure of impacts and dependencies on
2
are based on GHG emissions-reducing potential as well Garden Gourmet’s new
estimated 10 000 tonnes per year – a reduction of 89% of biodiversity by large companies and financial institutions
plant-based Vuna.
as nutrition, taste and cost. In 2022, Garden Gourmet
its current emissions. Total weight of waste generated in Nestlé factories in at the CBD COP15 negotiations in Montreal in December.
received the Solar Impulse Efficient Solution Label, marking
– Nestlé UK & Ireland designed, built and tested new 2022 and a breakdown of this total by composition of
it as a solution that is good for people, the environment
curtain-sided rail containers with several partners. The the waste We are an active member of the Taskforce on Nature-
and business.
containers have a raisable roof and can transport double- (metric tonnes) related Financial Disclosures working group, which is aimed
stacked palletized products by rail. According to Network at advancing the collective understanding of how to report
The Nestlé Professional Future Cup initiative launched a
Rail, each freight train takes up to 76 heavy goods Waste Hazardous Non-hazardous on double-materiality risks and dependencies related to the
customer-facing lifecycle assessment tool that helps our composition waste generated waste generated Total
vehicles off the roads. natural environment. This complements our membership
sales reps improve transparency to customers, allowing them
– Together with its logistics and fuel suppliers, Nestlé Biomass 839 1 973 909 1 974 748 of the Corporate Engagement Program run by the Science
to make more informed sustainable purchasing choices.
Waters is scaling up the use of biofuels, including bio- Mixed waste 33 067 926 422 959 489 Based Targets Network.
LNG (liquefied natural gas made from processed organic
Total 33 906 2 900 331 2 934 237
In China, we are collaborating with several large retailers.
waste) in trucks and other types of biofuels in ocean We have taken steps to enhance transparency on our
For example, in a collaboration with Alibaba and 18 other
freight logistics to North America. Nestlé UK & Ireland advocacy and lobbying activities, such as publishing our
consumer goods companies, Nestlé is promoting the
switched 73% of its owned fleet of trucks from diesel to 2022 Climate Advocacy Report.
Decarbonization-Friendly Actions program in an effort to
bio-LNG. Partners of Nestlé Waters in Italy and Germany
Video: Road to
increase carbon reduction actions across the industry.
have also started incorporating this technology in their rail logistics
Nestlé is one of the most active companies by providing 26
logistic operations.
lower-carbon products in the food and beverage category Food waste is an issue we
– In Germany, work on a new distribution center is under
take seriously. For example,
Along with several partners, on the Alibaba platform.
way. The aim is for the center to achieve platinum spent coffee grounds are
Nestlé UK & Ireland
burned and used as biogas
certification from the German Sustainable Building developed curtain-sided rail
at our Henniez bottled
containers with a raisable In Poland, Nestlé engaged and educated consumers on
Council. The plan is to reduce both our freight mileage water plant.
roof – taking 76 HGVs off
food waste by focusing a television commercial of one of
and CO footprint from logistics by around 30% per year. the road per train.
2
the biggest culinary brands in the country – Winiary.
The development of environmental footprint labeling
schemes in Europe gained significant momentum in 2022.
Nestlé is closely following the main initiatives to help push
for a harmonized European system. Our actions include:
– France: pilot testing some Nestlé products against Eco-
Score and Planet-Score
– Belgium: closely monitoring the roll out of Eco-Score on
products for retailer Colruyt
– UK: a nine-month R&D partnership with Foundation Earth
has helped develop a UK methodology for measuring
carbon, water usage, eutrophication and biodiversity loss
from farm to shelf for 12 Nestlé products. An EU Product
Environmental Footprint methodology (covering farm to
fork) is underway.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 13
Outlook The project will also include a practical
Making Swiss dairy
exploration of the conflicting goals of
We will continue working hard to reduce GHG emissions
grassland-based, site-adapted and climate-
across our operations and value chain. We aim to accelerate
friendly milk production. We also want to test
Scope 3 emissions reductions by focusing on actions
the use of simple, measurable GHG indicators
at the farm level. Actions will include the scaling up of a climate star
and better understand the relationship
regenerative agriculture practices and the implementation
between GHG reduction measures and feed-
of our Forest Positive strategy.
food competition.
Helping farmers in higher-carbon origins to improve their
The lessons learned can then be shared
practices will be a priority as we begin sourcing higher
internally and with our partners to help us all
volumes from origins with lower-carbon footprints.
replicate the results in other farms. We believe Advanced technology
Additionally, we will seek further opportunities to reduce A partnership to lower emissions Thousands of tonnes of can optimize operations
this project can only help our other efforts
and energy usage on
emissions from our vehicle fleet and third-party logistics, emissions reductions
around the world to become more effective. Swiss farms.
and to source more renewable electricity in our operations. in Switzerland.
Together, we hope to reduce GHG emissions
on up to 300 participating farms by 20%
We will continue our wide-ranging engagement work with
Dairy and livestock are the single largest by 2027 – a GHG reduction of 15 000
governments and international organizations, particularly
source of Nestlé emissions; reducing tonnes of CO e. Our four priority areas
2
on reducing deforestation risk and protecting nature. One
them is essential for achieving our overall are optimal feeding, animal longevity,
of our advocacy objectives for 2023 is to encourage the
climate ambitions. manure management and energy use. Each
placement of regenerative food systems at the heart of
participating dairy farm will be offered tailor-
Rolling out Nestlé-branded
national climate plans and for this to be a central focus for
hydrogen-fueled trucks in Around the world, we are seeking ways to made solutions for reducing their carbon
COP28 negotiators in the United Arab Emirates. Switzerland. make a difference in each local context. From footprint. Actions will include improving
looking at how cows are fed and how manure feeding, herd management, energy usage,
is managed, to using silvopasture, cover crops and fertilizer usage. We also hope to reduce
and renewable energy production – no stone is competition between animal feed and food
being left unturned. designed for human consumption by 20%.
Actions in this area will include improving
No two local contexts are the same – but many meadow fodder quality, cross-farm trade in
of the lessons are transferable. This is one of meadow fodder and land exchange.
the reasons we are so excited by our KlimaStaR
project in Switzerland. Partnering with another
of the country’s leading dairy processors, Rudolf Bigler’s dairy
Emmi, along with the ZMP and aaremilch farm in Mooseedorf,
Switzerland – part of a
cooperatives, we have pulled together a
partnership to lower dairy
coalition that includes local government, emissions in the country.
the AgroCleanTech platform and two Swiss
universities (ETH Zürich and the University
of Applied Sciences for Agricultural, Forest
and Food Sciences). Our aim is to reduce
emissions in Swiss dairy and improve scientific
understanding of the processes involved.
The Swiss Federal Office of Agriculture is
supporting the project, with GHG emissions in
dairy among the country’s largest areas after
mobility, heating and power.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 14
Looking at the 100% ASSESSED DEFORESTATION-FREE BY 2022 100% PALM OIL ASSESSED DEFORESTATION-FREE BY 2022
4% Unknown
89% Assessed
whole landscape
95.6% of palm from the sky
oil assessed as
6% Assessed
deforestation-free
1% Unknown on the ground
445 kilotonnes
1% Traceable
21.5% Assessed to non-very-high-
99.1% risk origin
from the sky
assessed deforestation-
15.1% Assessed
free in our primary
100% PULP AND PAPER ASSESSED DEFORESTATION-FREE BY 2022
on the ground
supply chains*
63.4% Traceable
4.1 million tonnes
to non-very-high-
0.1% Unknown
risk origins 99.9% of pulp and 0.3% Assessed
paper assessed as on the ground
deforestation-free
99.6% Traceable
1165 kilotonnes to non-very-high-
risk origins
* For meat, palm oil, pulp and paper,
soy and sugar
100% MEAT ASSESSED DEFORESTATION-FREE BY 2022 100% SOY ASSESSED DEFORESTATION-FREE BY 2022 100% SUGAR ASSESSED DEFORESTATION-FREE BY 2022
1% Unknown
1% Unknown 26% Assessed
99.9% of meat 0.1% Unknown 99.3% of soy 12% Assessed 99.3% of sugar from the sky
assessed as assessed as assessed as
99.9% Traceable from the ground 29% Assessed
deforestation-free deforestation-free deforestation-free
to non-very-high- 87% Traceable on the ground
157 kilotonnes risk origins 509 kilotonnes 1804 kilotonnes
to non-very-high- 44% Traceable
risk origins to non-very-high-
risk origins
TREES SECURED FOR PLANTING
Aim to grow 200 million trees by 2030 in
Trees secured for planting within the year
our supply chain and sourcing landscapes
Cumulative number of trees secured for planting
2021 24.6m
2022 12.4m 37.0m
Conserving and restoring natural habitats
within our supply chains is essential. But
2030 200m
it’s only the start. We are looking beyond
SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
the farm level to help positively transform
whole landscapes.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 15
Approach Long-term forest conservation and restoration Sustainable landscapes
Our Global Reforestation Program (GRP) is aimed at helping Forest conservation and restoration is about much more
Our landscape work is most visible in our
to conserve and restore land and natural ecosystems in our than keeping trees standing and natural ecosystems intact.
Forest Positive strategy and water initiatives by
supply chain and sourcing landscapes, while respecting the It is about reshaping incentives and how people behave
our Nestlé Waters business.
rights of Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities and to help protect the forests for the long term. We are
promoting sustainable livelihoods. The selected projects engaging with key partners and Indigenous Peoples and
The conservation and restoration of forests form an
are designed to have positive long-term impacts on people, Local Communities at a landscape level to identify projects
important part of our Net Zero Roadmap. Launched
nature and the climate. We aim to grow 200 million trees that can have a positive impact at a scale we could not
in June 2021, our Forest Positive strategy builds on a
by 2030. achieve alone. Our actions include rewarding suppliers for
decade of work to end deforestation in our supply chains.
practices that keep trees standing, helping to regenerate
It recognizes the need to collectively move from managing
the land and respecting human rights. Our aim is to support
risk to genuinely focusing on how we can achieve a positive
15 sustainable landscape initiatives by 2023.
impact in the critical landscapes that underpin the food
systems in which we are important actors. An external
advisory council of independent experts advises us on
the implementation of our strategy.
Global Reforestation Program
Our approach has three pillars:
Our Global Reforestation Program aims to grow 200 million trees by 2030 in our sourcing landscapes to create a
positive long-term impact on people, nature and the climate. Projects will help restore natural forest landscapes,
Deforestation-free supply chains
introduce agroforestry systems for suitable crops and support other natural ecosystem restoration activities.
In 2010, Nestlé committed to achieving and maintaining
deforestation-free primary supply chains. We aimed to
Phase 1: Phase 2: Phase 3: Phase 4: Phase 5:
achieve this:
Steps of initial Elements assessed Process to activate Actions to Project lifetime
– By 2022 for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar
investigation in pre-feasibility a project implement monitoring
primary supply chains
– By 2025 for coffee and cocoa – Map Nestlé’s study – Develop project and monitor – Conduct long-term
sourcing locations – Eligible locations design document and – Grow seedlings in monitoring of trees
Our Responsible Sourcing Standard is the tool that we – Conduct investigation – Scale of monitoring plan, to nurseries planted, carbon
Background A farmer in Costa
Rica inspects an use to manage this. Our objective is to ensure that the raw and scoping reforestation potential include: – Plant trees sequestered and other
Forests absorb approximately 2.6 billion tonnes of carbon agroforestry project materials we buy do not originate from: – Identify project – Carbon sequestration – Detailed project plan – Conduct short- and co-benefits
on his land.
dioxide every year. This is the equivalent to one third – Areas converted from High Carbon Stock forests opportunities in a potential – Timelines long-term monitoring
of the CO released from burning fossil fuels. As home – Areas converted from natural ecosystems such as country or region – Indicative project costs – Costs of trees planted,
2
to 80% of land-based species, forests are also critical wetlands or savannas meeting project criteria – Risks – Carbon calculations carbon sequestered
for the preservation of biodiversity and provide nutrition, – Conversion of peatlands of any depth, except where – Conduct due-diligence – Environmental and – Sign contract and and other co-benefit
shelter, energy, medicine and livelihoods for around farming practices protect peat screening for carbon- social co-benefit scope of work outcomes
1.6 billion people. – International Union for Conservation of Nature protected claims challenges and opportunities – Allocate funding
areas categories I-IV opportunities related – Applicable carbon – Activate partners and
As the global population grows, and demand for food along – UNESCO World Heritage Sites and wetlands on the to local context accounting local partnerships
with it, remaining forests and other natural ecosystems are Ramsar List methodologies
at risk of being converted into farmland. Forests are also at
increased risk of wildfires. We map our supply chains to know where the raw
materials that we buy come from. In at-risk origins, we take
Efforts are being made to protect the forestland that steps to assess that our purchases are not contributing
remains. Provisionally agreed legislative requirements on to deforestation or the conversion of natural habitats.
deforestation-free products, updated by the European The techniques we use include satellite mapping and
Commission in 2022, seek to increase the list of monitoring, on-the-ground assessments and certification.
commodities that must prove their deforestation-free
status, with increased protections for indigenous rights.
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Phase 5
Investigation Pre-feasibility Project Implementation Lifetime
At Nestlé, we believe that a forest positive future depends study activation and monitoring monitoring
on a broad approach that includes assessing deforestation
risks, conserving and restoring forests, respecting
community and land rights, and investing in sustainable
production landscapes. We cannot achieve our net zero
targets without a forest positive approach.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 16
External viewpoint Proof of concept A farmer in Côte d’Ivoire
harvests his cocoa – a
From a single project in Cumbria, LENs expanded as
crop that lends itself well
we put this principle into practice through multiple to both intercropping
A marketplace and agroforestry.
initiatives across the UK and Europe. For example, LENs
was successfully established in the East of England, an
for nature-based important area for sourcing wheat for cereals and pet food,
in 2021. Here, Nestlé Purina PetCare and Nestlé Cereal
Partners UK are working with water companies and local
solutions
authorities, together funding over 62 farmers and land
managers to introduce nature-based measures across more
than 10 000 hectares of land.
LENs makes this possible by creating a place for buying
and selling nature-based solutions. LENs acts as a neutral
Tom Curtis
Founding Partner of 3Keel broker for transactions between investors and groups of
land managers, who can implement actions on the ground.
Essentially, we built a ‘trading community’.
3.1
A plan to put buyers and sellers of
Trades also represent a profit-making opportunity for land
managers and farmers, who can now sell nature-based Million tonnes
sustainability services together.
solutions in addition to their crops. Everything is local and CO e secured over
2
organized within the regional economy so that outcomes a 20-year period
Landscape Enterprise Networks – the LENs program – is a make sense for the communities and ecosystems we through tree-planting
methodology for buying and selling nature-based solutions projects initiated
operate in.
that reduce risk to businesses, while improving the health (9.3m in 2021)
of a landscape.
Popular measures in the east of England LENs included
planting cover crops, which are intended to protect water
LENs began as an extension of sustainable risk management
quality and reduce soil erosion; reducing cultivation to Performance we secured 3.1 million tonnes of CO e removals through
2
in general (i.e. how does soil loss, biodiversity, deforestation
improve soil health, and planting hedgerows. It’s a win- nature-based solutions in 2022. Secured removals are
and human rights affect Nestlé’s business), with a specific The publication of our Human Rights Salient Issue Action
win for everyone: food and pet food are produced with from projects that were contracted in 2022 but had not
focus on the dairy farming landscape of a Nestlé factory in Plan on Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities’ Land
less negative impact, while helping to halt the decline in necessarily been implemented by the end of the year.
Cumbria, north west England. Here, all the milk that is critical Rights in Q1 2023 is a major milestone. Indigenous rights
biodiversity and regenerate the areas we live in and enjoy.
for production comes from within a 50 kilometer radius. We are an important consideration in all three pillars of our
In Colombia, a GRP project delivered more than 310 000
quickly realized that if we understood the landscape risks that Forest Positive strategy and this action plan helps reinforce
The success of the program means that LENs will continue trees. Ultimately, it aims to plant 7.5 million trees in and
matter most to Nestlé, we could work out a clear business our Forest Positive activities.
to scale up, both in the UK and globally. Projects are already around farmers’ coffee fields.
case for them to invest in and take care of that landscape.
underway in Italy, Hungary and Poland. We are excited
Deforestation-free supply chains
by the potential of the model for securing the future of In Nicaragua, an ongoing GRP project from 2021 (within
But these risks weren’t unique to Nestlé. There were One of our first LENs By the end of 2022, 99.1% of our primary supply chains
the landscapes that we, our business partners and our the Nescafé and dairy supply chains) reached its 2022 goal
landscape projects was
other sectors with similar interests such as water utility for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper, soy and sugar were
communities depend on. in East Anglia, England. of planting one million trees, as part of a 20-year project to
companies and local government, as well as other assessed as deforestation-free. Our palm oil supply chain
plant 8.6 million trees in total. The project has an estimated
companies connected to agriculture. We realized that presents the greatest opportunity to improve, with 95.6%
carbon capture potential of 1.9 million tonnes of CO e over
2
while different businesses had different needs from the assessed as deforestation-free.
20 years. It is expected to improve biodiversity and forest
landscape, those needs could be delivered by similar
connectivity, as well as protecting water sheds and creating
sets of land management solutions. These businesses From experience, we know that the last percentage points
additional income for participating farmers.
could therefore co-invest and divide the costs between are the hardest to reach, due to the volume sourced
them – increasing commercial efficiency dramatically. This from thousands of smallholders who require customized
Similarly, an ongoing GRP project in Honduras (within the
innovation was transformational in making the business technical assistance at a local level.
Nescafé supply chain) reached over 500 000 trees planted
case for nature-based solutions.
by the end of the year. This is part of a 20-year project,
Long-term forest conservation and restoration in
aimed at planting 5 million trees over the course of the first
our supply chains
six years. The trees will be used as shade trees on coffee
62 >10 000
In 2022, as part of our ongoing Global Reforestation
farms and for restoring forests in protected areas.
Program (GRP), we began work to plant 10 million trees in
Farmers and land managers Hectares of land covered in
Australia by 2025 (see the Reforestation in Australia case
funded to introduce the east of England pilot Through the Nestlé Cocoa Plan, we distributed 1.47 million
nature-based measures in study) as well as launching new projects in China, Ghana
forest and fruit trees globally.
the east of England pilot and Thailand leading up to 12.4 million trees. Overall,
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 17
Sustainable landscapes “Our partnership with
Reforestation
In line with our ambition to support 15 sustainable
Greening Australia and
landscape initiatives by 2023, we now have active
landscape projects in Brazil, Chile, Côte d’Ivoire, Indonesia, One Tree Planted is designed
Malaysia, Mexico, Peru and Russia.
so that the 10 million trees
in Australia
we plant in Australia will be
In 2022, our palm oil team mapped sourcing regions with
the greatest land rights risks against volumes of palm maintained and cared for
oil sourced from those regions. This will improve our
until they reach maturity,
understanding of land rights risks. The results are being
used to develop a strategy for identifying landscape-level delivering tangible long-
projects that Nestlé can support and/or participate in, and
term environmental and
Nestlé has made the ambitious
can be duplicated for other raw materials.
economic benefits.”
pledge to plant 10 million trees
In Côte d’Ivoire, the Nestlé Cocoa Plan has been working
in collaboration with the Côte d’Ivoire Ministry of Water in Australia by 2025.
and Forest and Earthworm Foundation to help protect
Sandra Martínez
and restore the Cavally Forest Reserve. Activities include
The project is part of the Nestlé Global CEO, Nestlé Oceania
working with farmers and supporting patrols of the forest to
Reforestation Program, which aims to plant and
remove illegal cocoa plantations within the natural reserve.
grow 200 million trees globally by 2030 in the
regions we source from, helping to secure our
Work has also been undertaken in the wildlife corridors
path to net-zero emissions by 2050.
of Beki and Bossemati forests near the Ghanaian border.
On a smaller scale, a 2021 pilot project working with the
In Australia, the trees will be planted in
community of Toa Zèo village to protect around 30 hectares
locations linked to agricultural areas where
of local and sacred forestland was so successful that in
Nestlé sources raw materials. Working
2022, the model was replicated in other villages. We believe
hand in hand with local landholders and
the model of working at a small scale has the potential
communities, the trees will help conserve local
to be rolled out to other communities in the country, and
Saplings of indigenous
biodiversity, improve water quality and restore
collectively to make a large impact. Australian trees are
degraded soils. prepared for planting.
Unique challenge Around 65 different species were selected,
Outlook
With over 132 million hectares of unique and including the Eucalyptus Strzelecki, an
We remain focused on achieving our deforestation-free varied native forests, Australia has the seventh indigenous plant that is nationally vulnerable
commitment, including progressing toward having our largest forest area in the world, making up to extinction, the Allocasuarina littoralis, a
cocoa and coffee supply chains assessed as deforestation- 3% of the world’s forests. However, Australia key food source for the Yellow-tailed Black
free by 2025. is also highly vulnerable to the effects of Cockatoo and the Leptospermum lanigerus,
climate change, having already experienced commonly known as the “Woolly Tea-tree”, a
We will also begin to operationalize our Salient Issue Action a rise in average temperatures and long-term species that attracts pollinators.
Plan on Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities’ land changes in rainfall, as well as more intense
Restoring diverse landscapes
rights, which was published in Q1 2023. and damaging storms, longer fire seasons and
more extreme weather. To ensure the project is correctly managed
and monitored, Nestlé is partnering with
We will continue to collaborate and promote best practices
through external initiatives including the Consumer The 10 million trees – a mix of native plant One Tree Planted, Greening Australia and
Goods Forum Forest Positive Coalition, the Cocoa and species – will sequester an estimated 2.1 Canopy. These organizations are committed
Forest Initiative and the Tropical Forest Alliance. We will million tonnes of CO e over a 25-year carbon to restoring Australia’s diverse landscapes and
2
also continue to advocate for greater transparency and crediting period. In fact, averaged over the protecting biodiversity in ways that benefit
more collective action from companies, governments and project lifetime, this is equivalent to fuel communities, economies and nature. They
civil society. emissions from more than 25 000 cars each will ensure that the trees are monitored across
year, according to Australian government 28 years as they mature, delivering long-term
numbers. The project kicked off at the tail end environmental and economic benefits.
of the 2022 planting season, with over 200 000
trees planted across almost 100 hectares in
New South Wales and Victoria.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 18
More regenerative
practices on farms
Background REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE
Progress toward 50% of key ingredients through
The 20th century saw extraordinary population and
regenerative agriculture methods by 2030*
economic growth, enabled by an evolution in agriculture.
This delivered affordable food to many, but also contributed
6.8%
to an over-exploitation of natural resources and, at times,
in 2022
led to negative social impacts.
20%
by 2025
We need an agricultural system that sustains and improves 50%
by 2030
the use of resources. Climate and nature-smart agriculture –
or regenerative agriculture – will increasingly form the basis
for success in achieving this.
The food systems of which we are a part have delivered
great benefits to the world and withstood great shocks – 6.8%
not least in recent years. But the multiple threats of climate
Key ingredients sourced
change, unprecedented biodiversity loss, social inequality
through regenerative
and risks to human rights, to name but a few, demand a
agriculture methods
fresh approach.
Currently, there is no detailed, standard definition of
regenerative agriculture – although many organizations
are working on one. However, the general principles and
practices of regenerative agriculture are aimed at improving
soil health and fertility, protecting water resources and
safeguarding biodiversity.
* In 2022, only the following sources are included in regenerative agriculture volumes:
Restoring soil health can also help capture increased levels
fresh milk, Ecuadorian cocoa, green coffee and Libby’s vegetables sourced through direct
of carbon in soils and plant biomass. Healthier soils are procurement/Farmer Connect or for Nespresso, Nestlé Nutrition cereals and vegetables that
are traceable back to a farm/cooperative level and raw materials that are covered by the Living
more resilient to the impacts of climate change and may
Soils initiative with Earthworm Foundation for Nestlé France. The denominator includes all raw
increase yields, helping to improve farmers’ livelihoods in materials in scope.
the long term. See our Reporting Scope and Methodology for ESG KPIs document for full details.
Regenerative agriculture has the potential For Nestlé, sourcing 20% of our key ingredients from SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
regenerative agriculture methods by 2025 and 50% by
to play a critical role in improving soil
2030 will be important for us to achieve the goals in our Net
Zero Roadmap.
health, sequestering carbon, supporting
food security, restoring water cycles
and biodiversity. This is why we are
investing in it.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 19
Nestlé is providing financial External viewpoint
and other support to
help farmers switch to
regenerative agriculture.
The human side of
regenerative agriculture
First – and arguably most important – is to ensure that the
way the company does business supports farmers. By this,
Kealy Sloan
Sustainable Food Lab Program we mean trading practices that provide a stable market
Manager, Agriculture & Development
and de-risk farmers or ensure a good return on a farming
household’s investments. For example, through the use of
conditional cash transfers or incentives.
Why companies need to support
The second is to provide agronomic support that helps
a just transition.
farming households to improve productivity and efficiency,
Approach Nestlé’s regenerative agriculture model
which can be achieved via training programs and new
We aim to source 20% of our key ingredients through Global trade can play a powerful role in alleviating poverty. materials. The third is to support farming households
Diverse cropping
regenerative agriculture methods by 2025 (and 50% Companies that source raw materials from smallholder to build better farm business management and support
systems and livestock Collective and
by 2030). In 2022, we launched the Nestlé Agriculture farmers have an opportunity – and an obligation – to diversified income generation.
integration* landscape actions
Framework to better explain our approach to regenerative ensure that their trading terms and sustainability programs
agriculture. It defines the three key resources of any enable farmers to afford a decent standard of living, or a The Nescafé brand and Nestlé more broadly have a long
agricultural system: soil, water, and biodiversity as the focus “living income”. history of working to improve farmer livelihoods and the
of collective restoration efforts. health of the planet. The brand’s work with farmers has
When we talk about living income, we’re talking about continued to evolve over time, starting with agronomic
The framework includes key concepts from conservation more than farmer livelihoods. Farmers who can afford support and supplemented with business-skill building
agriculture, sustainable intensification, climate-smart a decent standard of living are better able to invest in through “agripreneurship” programs. With the new pilot
farming, agroecology, low-input farming, precision farming regenerative agriculture and protect the environment. This programs to test conditional cash incentives, the Nescafé
and others to create an approach that actively helps in turn provides a more sustainable future for farming program is continuing its evolution, charting new frontiers
improve and restore natural resources. and contributes to a healthier planet. The social and the at the intersection of farmer livelihoods and regenerative
environmental elements are intrinsically linked – to make agriculture. We look forward to continuing our work with
Farmers are at the center of our model. They are the ones progress in one, you must support both. Nescafé to calibrate program components and support
managing resources and making decisions on practices learning within Nescafé, across Nestlé and to the broader
depending on their specific individual circumstances. Ultimately, a company’s role is to provide an enabling sector. The work holds important potential for smallholder
Where introducing regenerative agriculture practices environment in which farming households can thrive. farming households and the coffee industry at large, and
generates initial risks or costs for smallholder farmers, we This is with the understanding that farming households we are excited to be a part of the process.
may provide technical, collaborative or financial assistance are independent business people who make their own
to support a just transition. decisions and engage in their own livelihood strategies.
Nestlé employs more than 700 sourcing specialists and In our work with leading companies and brands such
more than 5500 staff to help us purchase fresh ingredients as Nescafé, we’ve come to understand that it’s critical
around the world. Our teams work with farmers to mange for companies to address the key drivers of income
resources and identify the best agricultural practices for improvement – price, productivity, efficiency, land size and
each local context. diversified income sources.
As part of our approach, we encourage industry alignment There are three main areas of action for a company to
Soil health Biodiversity Water security
on common frameworks and metrics for regenerative consider in relation to these key drivers to create an
and quality
agriculture. Notably, we are members of the SAI Platform, environment in which households can thrive.
which is one of several bodies working toward a
Brands like Nescafé can support farming households to build better farm
regenerative agriculture definition. * Whenever possible and relevant. business management and support diversified income generation.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 20
In Brazil, Nestlé Ninho now recognizes different levels of Outlook
regenerative practices by paying tiered premiums on milk
By 2025, Nestlé will invest CHF 1.2 billion to spark
prices. These practices reduced and removed 107 000
regenerative agriculture across our supply chains. We
tonnes of CO e in 2022 alone.
2
will continue to fund pilot projects and scale successful
initiatives. We will continue working toward a common
In Colombia, a CHF 1.6 million investment in a five-year
regenerative agriculture framework. We will also continue
grassland regeneration project entered its second year.
to co-invest with farmers to help them transition to
Involving 38 farmers, a total of 390 hectares have been
regenerative agriculture, as well as pay premiums for
naturally regenerated – by allowing woodland to grow next
regenerative agriculture goods. Our brands and markets will
to the pastureland. A total of 11 970 tonnes of CO e have
2
seek to develop more opportunities to launch regenerative
been sequestered.
agriculture activities around the world.
In Chile, Nestlé Nido has been gradually replacing synthetic
fertilizers with biofertilizers in maize, pastures and other
supplementary crops. Biofertilizers offer many benefits
because of their free-living bacteria, which promote plant
growth, improve productivity through the strengthening
of root systems, lower production costs and mitigate
the emissions of greenhouse gases. In 2022, the project
reduced 4500 tonnes of CO e.
2
Performance In Colombia, 390 acres
of natural woodland
have been regenerated.
In 2022, we sourced 6.8% of key ingredients from
farmers transitioning to regenerative agriculture methods, In the United States, we are working with partners to A Nescafé agronomist
works with local coffee
measure the outcomes of regenerative practices used
keeping us on track to achieve 20% by 2025 and 50% by
“We’re one of the first regions growers in Indonesia.
by pumpkin farmers supplying Libby’s in central Illinois,
2030. In 2022, only the following sources are included in
regenerative agriculture volumes: fresh milk, Ecuadorian 419 228 to trial increased use of covering more than 70 fields and over 6000 acres. The A coffee plantation
project has collected in-field data such as tillage type, in Indonesia, where
cocoa, green coffee and Libby’s vegetables sourced through biofertilization. This is a win-win
the Nescafé Plan
Farmers trained
fertilizer usage, and soil sample data, to help verify and
direct procurement/Farmer Connect or for Nespresso, Nestlé 2030 has begun
through Farmer initiative: good for the planet and quantify the environmental benefits of the regenerative supporting regenerative
Nutrition cereals and vegetables that are traceable back to
Connect (435 500 agriculture projects.
practices used to grow our pumpkins. The data showed
a farm/cooperative level and raw materials that are covered good for farmers as it’s also more
in 2021)
significant gains. Introducing sustainable, reduced tillage
by the Living Soils initiative with Earthworm Foundation for
cost-effective than using synthetic
practices saves soil from being lost to erosion as compared
Nestlé France. The denominator includes all raw materials
in scope. See our Reporting Scope and Methodology for fertilizer on crops like maize.” to conventional crop tillage practices. With the help of cover
crops, soil erosion rates are 40% lower than the average
ESG KPIs document for full details.
Enrique Vega for the state. Cover crops have also helped farmers reduce
Dairy Strategy and Policy
CO e by 732 tonnes compared with conventional practices
The Nestlé Institute of Agricultural Sciences launched in
Manager Nestlé Chile 2
(equivalent to removing 157 cars from the road for a year).
2022 to advance technology and research in the field.
In China, we started a partnership with Syngenta Group
In the north of France, Nestlé has been working with
to build a regenerative agriculture demonstration farm.
farmers on regenerative agriculture methods since 2018.
This farm is a unique opportunity to promote regenerative
Our work is part of the Sols Vivants (Living Soils) initiative,
agriculture trials and offer training to farmers. It also has the
involving partners such as Earthworm Foundation and
potential to support commercial cooperation in the supply
supermarket chain Lidl. Our Purina PetCare brand joined
of low-carbon wheat, corn and other raw materials.
the effort in 2020, where they are supporting the transition Video:
Living Soils initiative
to regenerative agriculture methods with a big effort on
agroforestry. The initiative involves mainly wheat crops As part of the Nescafé Plan 2030 strategy (see the Uplifting
lives and livelihoods case study), we started supporting
but also corn, sugar beet and vegetables. Together, we
regenerative agriculture practices for coffee farmers in
are supporting farmers technically and financially to
Brazil, China, Côte d’Ivoire, India, Indonesia, Mexico, the
make the transition to regenerative agriculture. By the
Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam in 2022.
end of 2022, we engaged 180 farmers and 10 suppliers
under the Sols Vivants initiative covering around 15 000
hectares in different regions, resulting in 72 000 tonnes of
raw materials.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 21
Coffee: a catalyst for change “Climate change is putting
Uplifting lives
Regenerative agriculture is an evolving
coffee-growing areas under
concept. In 2022, coffee (along with dairy) was
the first raw material where Nestlé developed a pressure. Building on 10 years’
detailed regenerative agriculture toolkit.
experience of the Nescafé Plan,
and livelihoods
we’re accelerating our work to
The toolkit defines the objective of
regenerative agriculture at Nescafé – to help tackle climate change and
maximize soil health, to capture carbon in
address social and economic
the ground and to prevent its release into
the atmosphere. There are three main areas challenges in Nescafé value
of work: protecting soil health, rejuvenating
chains.”
coffee plots and preserving biodiversity, with
the necessary actions outlined in each area.
David Rennie
Head of Nestlé Coffee Brands
Nescafé Plan 2030 green coffee Actions include training farmers in
See the full Nescafé Plan 2030 infographic regenerative agriculture practices and –
supported by the Nestlé Global Reforestation
Program – an existing pipeline of projects to
plant 20 million trees in and around coffee
farms in eight countries by 2026. Nescafé
Agroforestry Land restoration Green borders Financial support Human rights and
(riparian buffers) child protection expects this will have a positive impact on
biodiversity in coffee fields as well as reducing
GHG emissions.
While regenerative agriculture is central to
the Nescafé Plan 2030, the plan is holistic.
What the launch of the to simultaneously achieve lower GHG Coffee farmers harvest
We will provide training to help farmers
their crops by hand
emissions, improved incomes and better social
in Vietnam. transition to regenerative practices and
Nescafé Plan 2030 means
conditions. This will represent an investment
help to improve farming families’ incomes.
of CHF 1 billion by 2030, supported by Nestlé’s
for the coffee sector. Some of the There is an emphasis on rethinking and
investment in its regenerative agriculture and regenerative and
redesigning packaging, transitioning factories
sustainable activities
net zero journeys.
being implemented to renewable energy and improving logistics to
Every second, 5500 cups of Nescafé are under the Nescafé
reduce emissions.
Plan 2030.
consumed around the world. One in every The plan is a key part of the Nestlé Net
seven cups of coffee drunk every day is a Zero Roadmap. With many of Nestlé’s
To achieve maximum impact, Nescafé plans
Nescafé. This means the brand touches the emissions originating in its agricultural
to expand regenerative agriculture initiatives
lives of hundreds of millions of people, not just supply chain, Nescafé aims to contribute to
across seven countries where it sources 90%
in the more than 20 origin countries where its Nestlé’s commitment to halve greenhouse
of its coffee: Brazil, Colombia, Côte d’Ivoire,
coffee is sourced, but also in the more than gas emissions by 2030 and reach net zero
Honduras, Indonesia, Mexico and Vietnam. In
175 countries where it is sold. As such, Nescafé greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.
Côte d’Ivoire, Indonesia and Mexico, the brand
has an opportunity to lead the coffee sector’s
is piloting a financial support mechanism
sustainability drive. The plan is also aimed at delivering coffee
to help smallholder farmers accelerate the
that is 100% produced sustainably by 2025
transition to regenerative agriculture.
Launched in 2022, the Nescafé Plan 2030 (including assessed as deforestation-free), with
builds on the decade-long work of the Nescafé 20% of the brand’s coffee to be sourced from
5500 This is just a taste of things to come as
Plan and the legacy of the Nescafé brand, regenerative agriculture methods within the Optimized fertilization
Nescafé seeks to renew the world of coffee and
Women and (including organic Income diversification
dating back to 1960, in helping coffee farmers same timeframe (rising to 50% by 2030). cups of Nescafé
youth empowerment fertilizers) Farm renovation Cover crops (including intercropping) uplift lives and livelihoods with every cup.
to adopt best practices. It is highly ambitious. are consumed
As part of a fully integrated strategy, Nescafé around the world
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions Increase farmers’ income Create better social conditions
will help farmers use regenerative agriculture every second
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 22
Protecting
biodiversity
FOUR REALMS
Currently our
approach covers
Background Approach
four realms:
air, water, farmland
Biodiversity is declining faster than ever before. Today, Our Net Zero Roadmap includes strategies that can help
and forestland.
nearly a quarter of all animal and plant species are under protect and restore biodiversity and reduce greenhouse
the threat of extinction. gas emissions. We are leveraging lessons learned from our
Air
regenerative agriculture program and our Forest Positive
Main initiative:
The current approach to agriculture is a contributing factor strategy, and our experience in sustainable sourcing and
Net Zero Roadmap
to biodiversity loss. Thriving natural ecosystems have, over water stewardship activities to better integrate biodiversity
the decades, been replaced with expansive farming areas. considerations.
Water
This leads to the loss of habitats, displacement of species
Main initiative:
and environmental impacts from the overuse or production To meet increasing stakeholder interest in protecting
Water stewardship
of pesticides, fertilizers and manure. Yet, we depend upon biodiversity, including from the financial sector, we have
biodiversity (particularly pollinators) for our business. established a cross-functional working group to help guide
Farmland
Nestlé strategy, particularly identifying, measuring and
Main initiative:
There is a way for agriculture to protect and restore monitoring biodiversity impacts in our value chain. Nestlé
Regenerative
biodiversity – switching to more regenerative practices. As also supports the work of the International Chamber of
agriculture
a global food and beverage company, Nestlé is working to Commerce and Business For Nature in calling for strong
spark regenerative agriculture practices in our supply chain action by policymakers to safeguard natural resources.
Forests
(and with others in the food industry). This includes aiming
Main initiative:
to help safeguard biodiversity at the farm, landscape and Further information on our approach can be found in our
Forest Positive
global levels. Climate Risk and Impact report.
strategy
SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
The global food system, nature and
climate change are intrinsically linked.
Our efforts to help protect biodiversity
complement our Net Zero Roadmap.
A Hoopoe bird in a field
in France, near where
our Vittel brand has
implemented watershed
regeneration projects.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 23
Harnessing nature and its diversity as an asset are the “Produced in harmony, in the same
Honeybees boost
drivers of the Nespresso vision for regenerative coffee
place, using the same resources,
agriculture. By 2030, Nespresso is aiming to have 95% of
its green coffee volume rated bronze on the Rainforest Colmeia places the power of regenerative
Alliance Regenerative Coffee Scorecard (of which 70% will
agriculture in our hands. Colmeia
coffee beans and
be gold). By 2025, 10 priority areas, representing over 60%
provides more than compensation.
of the area managed under the Nespresso AAA Sustainable
Quality™ Program (in hectares), will have an action plan
It is about adding value and taking
in place.
biodiversity responsibility, to create a conscious
For Nescafé, biodiversity is also key, as highlighted in the brand where the whole chain of
case study (right) on Nescafé Origens Colmeia limited-
coffee beans, plants, bees and people
edition coffee, which includes a jar of honey made from
local honeybees. grow stronger.”
In Côte d’Ivoire, the Nestlé Cocoa Plan has been helping to Taissara Martins
ESG Manager for Coffee Brands in Brazil
restore the protected forests of Beki and Bossematie near
the border with Ghana. These forests are seen as a pivotal
habitat for Côte d’Ivoire’s elephant population, which once
numbered thousands but is now estimated at just 225
elephants. Through a partnership with local cooperatives,
SODEFOR, the Ministry of Water and Forests, the Rainforest Bees play an essential role in Innovative partnership Sweet combination
Alliance and others, the Nestlé Cocoa Plan has reforested Assisted pollination allows producers to reduce To bring the story of this exciting collaboration
healthy ecosystems. However,
43 hectares in the Beki Forest, created management plans the impact of farming on the environment and to life, Colmeia is sold as a special limited-
for a buffer zone up to five kilometers around the forest and preserve biodiversity. The presence of bees edition Arabica coffee that includes a tasty
the world’s bee population is in
raised awareness among community members within these even helps to reduce the amount of inputs pot of honey made by the very same bees
Performance A forest buffer zones on the importance of forest protection. rapid decline, posing a serious used in coffee plantations, as bees help plants that pollinated the coffee flowers. Hexagonal
shade tree consume fewer resources in production, and packaging mimics the honeycombs and
towers
Nestlé and the wider food industry are continuing to above a Hedges play an important role in providing habitats for threat to global agriculture and with increased productivity, there is also an connections of the hives and can be upcycled
develop an understanding of the importance of biodiversity cocoa field insects, birds and small mammals, and also sequester important reduction in the carbon footprint as a vase after use.
in Côte future food supply.
and the role of business in helping safeguard it. We are carbon. Yet, in the Netherlands, around 90% of hedgerows of the farm. The project was managed with
d’Ivoire.
an active advocate in several global forums, working have been lost since 1900. Nestlé Professional teamed the help of technology start-up Agrobee Although it was a first edition, the Colmeia
groups and organizations, and we engage with investors up with the Hoogheggen Foundation to help restore Bees are particularly important in coffee – a company that brings beekeepers and concept is proving highly attractive. The
on biodiversity on a regular basis. We participate in biodiversity in the country. For every Nescafé machine sold production. Studies show bees can increase farmers together to promote pollination and product sold out in 120 days and earned media
discussions related to the United Nations Convention for professional use, 2.5 meters of hedgerow were planted. coffee crop yield, improve quality and boost provides training in efficient management and coverage worth BRL 7 million (USD 1.2 million)
on Biological Diversity and consistently supported the sustainable coffee production. sustainable insect practices in the field. in just 30 days, so the benefit of bees can be
political intention to agree a Global Biodiversity Framework felt across the value chain.
throughout 2022. We are a signatory to the Business Beehives to farms
Outlook
for Nature COP15 business statement on mandatory
To tackle this imbalance, Nestlé Origens do
assessment and disclosure on biodiversity and we have a We aim to strengthen our leadership and advocacy
Brasil launched an innovative project called
leadership role in the International Chambers of Commerce on biodiversity and to accelerate the integration of Assisted
Colmeia – meaning beehive – in March 2022.
pollination
Working Group on Biodiversity. biodiversity considerations into our Net Zero Roadmap.
can be
We will continue to engage in various forums and global good for
The aim is to significantly increase pollination
biodiversity
In 2022, we carried out an assessment to identify, monitor organizations on climate, nature and biodiversity to advance
rates by introducing bee colonies to coffee- and reduce
and measure biodiversity impacts in our supply chain, with collective action on these critical topics. carbon.
producing family farms across three major
a view to establishing a baseline for action. This builds on
regions in the southeast and northeast of
the steps we are already taking in many of our ingredient
Brazil: Chapada Diamantina (Bahia), Serras
supply chains.
do Alto Paranaíba (Cerrado Mineiro) and São
Sebastião do Paraíso (South of Minas).
For example, we have studied the breadth of animal life
present on dairy farms in Spain to assess what additional
support to provide. At the 15 pilot farms assessed to date,
we have distributed nearly 100 bird boxes to support bird
populations. We plan to double the number of farms in this
pilot by 2025.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 24
Regenerating
the water cycle
Background NESTLÉ GROUP
We aim to reduce water use in our factories
In 2022, widespread flooding and drought affected many
by 6 million m3 between 2021 and 2023
countries around the world. This was recognized as a sign
(million m3)
of climate change acceleration. Europe, the west of North
America and China’s Yangtze River area all experienced
Total water withdrawn
historic levels of drought. Meanwhile, devastating floods in
Total water consumed
Pakistan affected around 33 million people.
Total water discharged
The availability of clean, safe water is under increasing
2020 2021 2022
threat. Water stress – where demand exceeds the amount
of good quality water available – is a growing problem
115.4
as the climate changes and populations increase. Unless 56.2
action is taken, it is estimated that by 2050, water stress
will affect more than half the world’s population.
39.0 98.0 43.9 97.1
Agriculture accounts for 70% of all water withdrawals
worldwide. In some regions, water consumption to produce Water
food for a growing, urbanized population is increasing withdrawn
pressure on the natural water cycle. In other regions, Mm3
agricultural inputs such as fertilizers can potentially affect
the quality of water sources. 59.2 59.0
53.2
Livelihoods, health and sanitation, and biodiversity can all
be affected when the water cycle is disrupted, as can food
production. We depend on a reliable source of agricultural
raw materials from 100 countries. Many of these supply
chains are in countries where water stress is high and
access to sanitation and hygiene is limited.
We recognize the need to play our part in helping to
protect, restore and renew water sources. For years, we Reduction 1.69 2.30 2.38
have implemented programs to continuously improve water in water
Water is vital to all life. In our case, we efficiency and reduce water withdrawals in our factories, use Mm3
even as production volumes increase. Since 2021, our
depend on it in our supply chains and
bottled-water business has gone even further – seeking to
help create a positive water impact everywhere it operates.
for our operations. Water stewardship
SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
is critical, for our business, for the
communities in our value chain and for
the environment.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 25
Approach Our Nestlé Waters In addition to providing safe drinking water and sanitation
business is helping to
for Nestlé employees, we support access to water for the
create a positive water
Our new Water workstream meets monthly and reports to
impact at the catchment communities surrounding our direct operations and in our
the Head of ESG Strategy and Deployment, with oversight level – such as here with
supply chains. Our new Human Rights Salient Issue Action
Acqua Panna in Italy.
from the ESG and Sustainability Council.
Plan on the Right to Water and Sanitation, addresses our
approach in this area in depth (see performance section).
Nestlé performs regular assessments of local water
resources and water use inside and outside its factories,
Water partnerships and advocacy
including possible future risks. We engage with
Water is a shared resource, requiring collaborative care.
stakeholders and monitor external research findings.
We work together with other water users and partners to
address watershed challenges and to ensure that water
Strategy
resources are managed in a way that is ecologically
We manage our strategy across five pillars. In each of these
sustainable, socially equitable and economically beneficial.
five pillars we consider the following four approaches:
We are dedicated members of:
– The local and wider catchment level
– The World Economic Forum’s 2030 Water Resources
– Compliance as a minimum
Group (2030 WRG), focused on sustainable water
A river in France, with a
– Best practice in water resources management
riparian buffer (vegetation) management to help countries achieve water security by
– Collective action helping to protect it.
2030 through collective action.
– The CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global Compact initiative
that unites business leaders on water, sanitation and
OUR WATER PILLARS Nestlé Waters Sustainable Development Goals.
Our bottled-water business includes brands such as Perrier, – The WASH4Work initiative, which asks businesses to take
Across Nestlé, we
Nestlé factories serving our S.Pellegrino, Vittel and Buxton. Our pledge is to lead the action to address WASH challenges in the workplace,
will continue to Nestlé Waters business regeneration of the water cycle and to help create a positive in communities where the business operates and in
water impact everywhere our water business operates by supply chains.
Agricultural supply chain
work to achieve
2025. We have also committed to certifying all our Nestlé – The Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) Technical
Waters sites to the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) Committee and Agriculture Working Group. Nestlé Nestlé Waters has
Nestlé factories
good water resource
committed to certifying all
Standard by 2025. representatives have also contributed to the work of the
sites to the AWS Standard
management Water in communities AWS Board. by 2025.
Agricultural supply chain
Water partnerships
throughout our We use the Nestlé Responsible Sourcing Standard to
and advocacy
specify what we expect in terms of water use and water
operations and
management practices in our agricultural supply chains.
agricultural
Traceability is key to identifying areas of water risk in our
supply chains. supply chains. We assess the water footprint of important
agricultural commodities and identify opportunities where
water management practices can be improved.
Nestlé factories
We aim to reduce water use in our factories by 6 million m3
between 2021 and 2023. We monitor water withdrawals
and water quality at our factories. We promote recycling
and reusing water where possible and closely monitor the
quality of the water we discharge to ensure no downstream
negative impact and guarantee regulatory compliance.
Water in communities
Access to safe drinking water and sanitation is a basic
human right and safe water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH)
100% contributes to health, well-being and community resilience.
We believe businesses have a role to play in helping ensure
Water discharged that people have access to water and sanitation.
at our factories is
monitored for quality
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 26
Nestlé viewpoint factories. In 2022, total water withdrawals at Nestlé
factories were 97.1 million m3 (2021: 98 million m3). We
delivered absolute savings of 2.38 million m3 of water,
Small actions
keeping us on track to reduce water use in our factories
by 6 million m3 between 2021 and 2023 as planned. The
remaining reduction was due to changes in our business.
make a splash
Of our total water withdrawals, 36.1% were in regions with
‘high’ or ‘extremely high’ baseline water stress in 2022, a
slight increase from 2021.
Direct water withdrawals per tonne of total product show
The power of teamwork
that Bottled water and PetCare are the most water-efficient
Cisco Mayorgas This work was a success thanks to strong relationships categories. Our Confectionery and Powdered and liquid
Water Resources Manager, with partners and local stakeholders. Sharing data and beverages categories show the greatest improvements
Nestlé Waters
knowledge has built trust over time. compared to 2010.
Next year we’ll complete a project with the Natural Park There were five water-related incidents that incurred a fine
A look at how Nestlé Waters is
to restore the Castanya River. The river has been partially Performance Assessing the water or penalty in 2022 as per the CDP reporting framework.
blocked by landslides, following fierce storms. Water footprint in our commodity These incidents either pertained to exceeding certain
regenerating a local water cycle in Spain. supply chain is one way to
Nestlé Waters
continues to flow under the debris but several aquatic find areas of improvement. discharge limits or were administrative in nature, and the
species, such as the endangered Montseny newt, are Nestlé Waters follows the Alliance for Water Stewardship imposed fines or penalties were not material. All incidents
Our Viladrau water bottling plant in Spain is located in the unable to cross the barrier. Once the area is restored, the (AWS) International Water Stewardship Standard on all were reported in a timely manner to local environmental
21
Montseny Natural Park. Recent changes in rainfall patterns park team will be able to re-introduce the species to the its sites. The AWS is a global membership collaboration authorities and resolved. We have identified the causes
and more unpredictable storms have impacted local lower reaches of the river – with the two populations being that promotes the adoption of a universal framework for of these incidents and put in place measures to prevent
Nestlé Waters sites
biodiversity. To help address this, Nestlé Spain has adopted able to naturally reach each other again. the sustainable use of water – the AWS Standard. We a recurrence.
certified to the AWS
a series of targeted actions to protect endemic species. contribute to the work of the Technical Committee and
Standard (19 in 2021)
We believe if we can demonstrate that our small actions Agriculture Working Group. Nestlé representatives have Water withdrawals at our factories by product categories
Our first project is aimed at restoring wetlands, in can have an impact, we can replicate them in other areas also contributed to the work of the AWS Board and its 5 (m3 per tonne of product)
partnership with a team of local biologists and the of Spain and other countries facing similar challenges. International Standard Development Committee, which % reduction
Montseny Natural Park. Declared a Biosphere Reserve Perhaps we can inspire even greater collaboration. first developed the AWS standard. During 2022, 21 Nestlé Water incidents Category 2010 2021 2022 since 2010
by UNESCO in 1978, for many years the park was left Waters sites were AWS certified (against 19 in 2021). in 2022
Milk products 5.5 3.58 3.7 32.7
untouched. Vegetation grew, forests became dense and
the wetlands began to naturally silt up. Since 2021, Nestlé Waters has been identifying and Confectionery 7.2 3.08 2.68 62.8
implementing projects designed to help regenerate local
Nutrition and healthcare 13.6 8.39 8.68 36.2
In March 2022, Nestlé Spain funded the re-excavation water cycles in areas where they operate. In 2022, projects
of four interconnected ponds that had disappeared. We included a drip irrigation program in Sheikhupura, Pakistan;
PetCare 1.2 1.16 1.25 -3.9
carefully removed silt deposits, transferred plants and pond renaturation to support local wildlife in Viladrau, Spain
protected the area from park visitors. During the process, (see Nestlé viewpoint, left); and restoring water quality Powdered and 13.9 5.93 6.18 55.5
liquid beverages
we uncovered a spring that now helps to maintain flow and in Khanom Chin canal, Thailand. These projects have
Prepared dishes and
refill the ponds. Initial results show that despite one of the delivered a volumetric water benefit of 2.3 million cubic 5.5 3.13 3.08 44.0
cooking aids
driest summers on record, the ponds remained full and meters so far.
Bottled water 1.7 1.52 1.48 13.2
aquatic life thrived.
Nestlé Waters has shared research to develop water-
Working with biologists we identified red frogs as a key positive methodologies in an open-source format,
2.3
Percentage of water withdrawn in Percentage of water consumed in
marker species for the ponds’ biodiversity. We’ll know more contributing to new modules of the World Resources
regions with ‘high’ or ‘extremely regions with ‘high’ or ‘extremely
about how they are doing after the breeding season. Institute’s Volumetric Water Benefit Accounting Million m3 high’ baseline water stress high’ baseline water stress
methodology. This work helps organizations and
Volumetric water
businesses calculate the volumetric water benefits of benefits delivered
any water stewardship project. through projects
36.1% 51.5%
Water withdrawals at our factories
(35.4% in 2021) (49.1% in 2021)
Cisco Mayorgas reviews The need to improve water withdrawals and consumption
regeneration work in
was highlighted by 2022’s droughts around the globe.
Montseny Natural Park,
Catalonia. We continuously strive to improve water savings at Nestlé
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 27
Water in communities Water in Pakistan
Becoming more
In Q1 2023, we launched our new Human Rights Salient The situation for communities in Pakistan is a
Issue Action Plan on the human right to water and good example of the need for this integration
sanitation. The action plan reinforces WASH at the heart of of programs. Pakistan is one of the most
our water stewardship program and is aimed at focusing water-stressed countries in the world, with the
water secure
our attention on preventing and mitigating WASH risks in bulk of its freshwater being used in agriculture.
our operations and supply chain. It forms part of a suite of On top of this, in 2022, the country faced
action plans covering all our salient human rights issues. extreme drought and water shortages followed
by the worst monsoon floods in a decade,
In terms of country-specific activity, farmers in Cauca, with countless homes washed away and vital
Colombia used Community Development Funds provided farmland destroyed.
by Nespresso to build water treatment plants on local
Access to safe, affordable and Our pledge evolves
aqueducts. This will provide more than 44 000 people in To help people tackle these extreme climate
We were a founding member and co-chair of
these two regions with access to clean, safe drinking water. change impacts and become more water
reliable water, sanitation and
the World Business Council for Sustainable
secure, we identified Pakistan as one of our
East Water Partnerships and Advocacy Development WASH Pledge in September
As different communities have different priorities, it’s hygiene – known as WASH – is priority countries in our Salient Issues Action
Anglia,
important for us to understand their unique needs. Our In 2022, we began a landscape project in East Anglia, UK as 2014. By signing this pledge, Nestlé and over Plan on the Right to Water and Sanitation,
England,
Community Relations Process tool, developed in 2019, home to part of a Landscape Enterprise Networks (LENs) initiative. a basic human right. Yet billions 50 other global businesses committed to published in Q1 2023.
one of
has been rolled out in our medium-to-high-risk markets. This holistic regeneration initiative includes aiming to have implementing WASH for all employees in every
our LENs
of people around the world still
It helps identify local community members to involve in projects. a positive impact on water quality through planting cover location we operate in. All four of our factories and other sites
our tailored WASH interventions. crops (see the A marketplace for nature-based solutions in Kabirwala, Islamabad, Port Qasim and
do not have access to safe and
external viewpoint). Since then, the urgency to address water- Sheikhupura meet the WASH Pledge
related climate risks has intensified. These
clean water. requirements, strengthening the rights of over
Nestlé, along with other WASH4Work members, signed a risks, which arise from too much water, too 7500 employees. In addition, we have set up
A WASH
point in business declaration at the COP27 UN Climate Conference little water or polluted water, have a direct six drinking water facilities, which provide
Côte d’Ivoire in Egypt (the latest in the UN’s series of climate change At Nestlé, we are in a unique position to help impact on WASH, especially for the most access to clean and safe water to over 60 000
installed increase access to water and sanitation for our
through our summits) to mobilize the leadership and partnership vulnerable. We believe it is time for companies people every day, and we monitor these
employees who work in our factories, for the
partnership needed to shape a more climate-resilient water sanitation to bring their WASH and climate actions regularly for quality.
with the communities living around our operations and
and hygiene-secure world. together. This is why in November 2022,
International
for the people working in the farms that supply
Federation we called for businesses to apply a climate
Through our water education program, as part
of Red Cross us. Our approach is twofold: assess, address,
and Red Separately, in Stockholm, during World Water Week (an resilience framework for WASH programs of Nestlé for Healthier Kids, we reached out to
monitor and report on risks in our value chain,
Crescent annual, global event focused on water issues), Nestlé through the WASH4Work platform. 35 000 children and 250 teachers in schools in
Societies and engage with wider society and business to
organized a panel event alongside three NGO partners: 2022 on the benefits of drinking more water.
(IFRC).
collectively help people become more water-
Water Aid, the Toilet Board Coalition and the Global Water Together, our efforts ladder up to Sustainable
secure and climate resilient
Partnership focused on taking a rights-based approach Development Goal 6, on clean water and
to WASH. Nestlé Waters also participated in an event on sanitation, and Goal 17, on partnerships for
the topic of regenerating water cycles, which included the Goals.
input from the Swiss Agency for Development, water
strategy analyst Bluerisk and the International Union for In the future, we plan to work with global
Conservation of Nature. The UN Global Compact initiative “Water is a shared resource, so and local stakeholders to develop and apply
CEO Water Mandate was discussed along with the “water a climate-resilient WASH framework to our
caring for it must be through
positive” concept, associated methodologies and the need water, sanitation and hygiene programs and
to develop transformative projects with long-term benefits joint collaborative actions. investments, and to continue to leverage our
at the catchment level. broad reach and influence.
Through partnerships in the
locations where we operate,
Outlook
I believe we can make a difference
During 2023, we will continue to work toward improved and inspire more comprehensive
water resource management and water stewardship.
WASH approaches.”
We are also beginning an in-depth study to estimate
Sheikh Waqar Ahmad A Nestlé-
the water co-benefits of the agriculture and nature-based Head of Corporate Affairs & supported
Sustainability at Nestlé Pakistan WASH
solution projects within our Net Zero Roadmap for
initiative in
addressing shared water challenges. Pakistan.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 28
Ingredients produced PRODUCED SUSTAINABLY PALM OIL
100% key ingredients produced sustainably by 2030* 100% certified sustainable
(16.3% in 2021) palm oil sourced by 2023
2022 data comprises Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
certifications and credits as follows: 20.0% segregated, 1.6%
16.3% in 2021
sustainably
mass balance, 45.6% book and claims without including
22.0% in 2022** credits from independant smallholders, 3.7% book and
claims from independent smallholders only.
58.7% in 2020
71.1% in 2021
71.0% in 2022
Sustainable
key ingredients sourced
22.0%
* Key ingredients refers
to 14 key agricultural raw in 2022** Sustainable
materials that cover 95% palm oil sourced
of our annual sourcing by
100%
volume: cereals and grains;
cocoa; coconut; coffee;
by 2023
dairy; fish and seafood;
hazelnuts; meat, poultry
and eggs; palm oil; pulp
and paper; soy; spices;
sugar; and vegetables.
** Change in definition in
2022 means year-on-year
data are not comparable.
COCOA COFFEE CAGE-FREE EGGS
100% cocoa sourced through the 100% sustainably produced coffee 100% cage-free eggs
Nestlé Cocoa Plan by 2025 by 2025 sourced globally by 2025
The % cocoa sourced through the Nestlé Cocoa Plan includes 87.0% Nescafé Plan (81.5% in 2021)
volumes of Rainforest Alliance certified mass balance cocoa 93.1% Nespresso AAA Sustainable Quality™ Program
that are not accounted for in the global Produced Sustainably (92.6% in 2021)
indicator above.
48.0% in 2020 75.0% in 2020 76.3% in 2021
50.6% in 2021 82.8% in 2021 71.7% in 2022
68.3% in 2022 88.0% in 2022
Sustainable Sustainable
Cage-free eggs sourced
cocoa sourced coffee sourced
100%
100% 100%
by 2025
by 2025 by 2025
We can deliver a positive impact by
ensuring that the raw materials in our
products have been produced sustainably
SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
and with respect for people, planet
and nature.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 29
Background SUSTAINABLE In 2022, we decided to split our original key performance External viewpoint Communities and smallholders are the key
SOURCING: OUR indicator (KPI) into two. The framework’s main KPI In parallel, we are engaging with local communities in
We rely on long-term supplies of high-quality, sustainably
FOUR PILLARS measures the performance of volumes at origin level Sabah on forest protection and restoration, as well as
produced raw materials. Their sustainability depends on Inspiring action
OF ACTIVITY against the requirements of our Responsible Sourcing training smallholders on sustainability, wildlife protection,
different factors, including agricultural practices used and
Standard. For 2022, we reported against that KPI, farm productivity and income diversification in Nestlé’s
their impact on critical forests and natural ecosystems,
Transparency as follows: in Sabah supply chain. So, we are building solutions with a real
and the extent to which human rights and animal welfare
Improve traceability – A material is produced sustainably either when it can be sense of the big picture. Collectively we hope to assist
practices are respected and promoted.
of the origins of traced to low-risk countries or when it has been assessed 5000 smallholder farmers through conservation initiatives,
our raw materials as compliant with our Responsible Sourcing Standard income diversification and good agricultural practices.
Challenges related to agriculture often have their roots in
and enhance our through one of the following means: We hope to see a 50% reduction in deforestation in key
or are exacerbated by poverty. Supporting communities,
understanding – certification sensitive areas in Sabah by 2025.
facilitating and incentivizing better farming practices
of how they – second or third-party farm assessments
and helping improve livelihoods are all crucial concerns
are produced – on-the-ground programs in which Nestlé directly works Another example of our work together is our Workers and
at Nestlé.
with producers (e.g. Nestlé Cocoa Plan, Nescafé Plan or Quek Karl Yen Families Program. The industry in Sabah relies heavily on
Country Head for Malaysia
Environment Nespresso AAA Sustainable Quality™ Program). Indonesian and Filipino migrant workers, whose children
at Earthworm Foundation
The ability to map our supply chains is essential to
Contribute to often live with them in remote plantations. These children
ascertaining whether ingredients have been produced
conserving and Our Responsible Sourcing Standard sets out non- face limited access to education, healthcare and birth
sustainably. Without traceability, we cannot assess
restoring the negotiable requirements and ways of working with our registration, which are all risks linked to child labor. The
conditions or support our suppliers – large and small – How Nestlé and Earthworm are working
environment and direct suppliers, which we expect them to roll out to their risks are broader than any one supply chain, so we seek
to improve.
natural resources own partners in turn. to address the root causes and take a holistic approach.
to make palm oil more sustainable.
Our activities include developing a Child Risk Assessment
By reporting transparently on these issues, we can
Human rights We work closely with our direct suppliers to map our Framework (CRAF) toolkit with Nestlé in 2020, which was
push ourselves and the wider industry to meet current Respect and promote upstream supply chains and, where needed, to carry out Conservation is something I am passionate about. I studied then piloted with a supplier in 2021 and early 2022.
commitments and become increasingly ambitious in the rights of people farm assessments with partner organizations. If gaps are Forestry and began my career in the palm oil industry
the future. Our aim is for 100% of our key ingredients in our supply chains found, the supplier develops an action plan. If a supplier before I joined Earthworm. I now lead the Earthworm We work with those who really want to transform, who
to be produced sustainably by 2030. Foundation team in Malaysia, where we take a holistic
refuses to improve or fails to close identified gaps, we may want to be innovative, try new methods and inspire others.
Animal welfare terminate the business relationship. approach to responsible sourcing across clearly defined As long as the landscape approach creates economic,
Contribute to sourcing areas, collaborating with key stakeholders from social and environmental value for everyone, others will
Approach continuously A second KPI measuring our suppliers’ Human Rights and the private and public sectors, farmer associations and civil replicate our actions willingly.
improving how Environmental Due Diligence will be introduced in 2025 society in tackling climate change, biodiversity and human
Over the course of 2021 and 2022, we developed and
animals in our supply (see Outlook). rights risks. We call it the landscape approach.
refined a new Produced Sustainably Framework. This
chains are treated
framework is designed to enable continuous improvement 5000 50%
This is incredibly important in the state of Sabah
across Nestlé’s supply chain to achieve full implementation
in Northern Borneo, where palm is by far the most
Aim to assist Aim to reduce
of Human Rights and Environmental Due Diligence
planted crop. Supplying 6.2% of the world’s palm oil in
smallholder farmers deforesation in
(HREDD) and delivery of positive impacts on people,
2020, the crop has driven both economic development
through conservation key sensitive areas
nature and climate in Nestlé’s sourcing origins.
and deforestation. initiatives. by 2025.
It applies to 14 key ingredients that represent 95% of our
Earthworm is partnering with Nestlé on a number of
annual sourcing by volume. They are: cereals and grains;
initiatives, including the Sabah landscape initiative where
cocoa; coconut; coffee; dairy; fish and seafood; hazelnuts;
we are driving collective action and holistic change in this
meat, poultry and eggs; palm oil; pulp and paper; soy;
critical sourcing region. We hope to show smallholder
spices; sugar; and vegetables.
farmers what’s possible when we combine sustainable
economic development, forest conservation, decent work
Once fully implemented, the Produced Sustainably
opportunities and resilient livelihoods for communities.
Framework will mean that:
– The material is traceable back to the point of origin (farm
We bring together everyone linked to palm oil – companies
or group of farms)
like Nestlé but also NGOs, civil society, experts,
– Human rights and environmental due diligence (HREDD)
governments, mills, plantations, farmers and communities
systems are in place at direct supplier level to assess,
– to find the best ways to regenerate nature and improve
address and report on the potential or actual impacts
people’s lives. Our team, who come from a diverse
identified in the supply chain
background including the palm oil industry, works hand
Sabah, Malaysia, the
– The volumes Nestlé buys through its direct suppliers are
location of a palm oil in hand with farmers on the ground to find pragmatic
compliant with the Nestlé Responsible Sourcing Standard initiative with Earthworm
solutions that can be replicated across other commodities.
(see the Inspiring action in We partner with Earthworm on a variety of
requirements at production level
Sabah external viewpoint). sustainable sourcing initiatives around the world.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 30
Scientific approaches to An Ivorian Cocoa farmer Animal welfare
prunes a tree to improve
All of the eggs that we purchase for our food products are
regenerative agriculture productivity and reduce
the risk of plant disease. now certified cage-free in Europe and the United States and
In February 2022, we announced the creation of the 71.7% are cage-free worldwide. We are on track to achieve
Nestlé Institute of Agricultural Sciences to translate novel 100% cage-free eggs globally by 2025.
agricultural science into concrete applications and to
identify and develop the most promising regenerative Nespresso
agriculture technologies. Based in Lausanne, Switzerland, The Nespresso AAA Sustainable Quality™ Program is
the organization has a decentralized structure and a coffee sourcing program designed to ensure the
incorporates Nestlé’s existing plant sciences research continued supply of high-quality coffee while improving
facilities in France, as well as numerous research farms the livelihoods of farmers and their communities, and
around the world. protecting the environment.
The Institute has three focus areas: plant sciences, dairy- Since 2009, Nespresso has reduced the carbon footprint
livestock sciences and agricultural systems sciences. In of a Nespresso cup of coffee by 24%*. The AAA Program * Carbon footprint
reduction of a cup of 40ml
plant sciences, the team is selecting plant-based alternative pays premiums for coffee that has been grown according
of Nespresso coffee in 2020
ingredients for our recipes. We are also breeding coffee to AAA principles. In 2022, the AAA Program integrated (vs 2009 LCA study), as
and cocoa varieties that combine higher productivity with the newly released Rainforest Alliance Regenerative Coffee measured by independent
external partner Quantis.
disease and drought resistance. In Mexico, for example, Scorecard. The Scorecard is designed with a continuous
such new coffee varieties are already delivering 50% higher improvement approach to regenerative agriculture, from
yields and a 30% reduction in carbon footprint. 157 157 achieving greater efficiencies to the redesign of farms.
It outlines three performance ratings: bronze, silver and
Number of farmers in
To decrease emissions related to our dairy sourcing, we gold according to the adoption of identified regenerative
the Nestlé Cocoa Plan
test and validate existing and new scientific approaches practices across criteria on soil, ecosystems, crops and
including feed supplements, wearable technologies, financial management. As part of this scorecard, through
immunological approaches and manure management the Nespresso AAA Sustainable Quality™ Program farmers
options. In agricultural system sciences, our focus on Coffee plantlets at the plant Performance of concept for reducing and removing greenhouse gas are compensated for making a positive contribution to
science unit of the Nestlé
new agronomic practices and methods to quantify their emissions, using cutting-edge technology and regenerative nature by adopting regenerative practices and producing
Institute of Agricultural
In 2022, 22.0% of our key ingredients were produced
impact on soil health, carbon sequestration and biodiversity Sciences (France), where farming methods. in ways that restore and protect biodiversity in and around
research into more reslient sustainably, meeting our criteria for transparency,
outcomes aims to accelerate the transition to regenerative production areas.
coffee varieties has been
environmental and social standards, and animal welfare.
agriculture sourcing. carried out since 1986. In palm oil, we remain committed to sourcing 100%
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified In April 2022, Nespresso became B Corp-certified, joining
Transparency A coffee farmer in
supplies in 2023, even if there is today already a large a global community of businesses that meet the highest
Brazil – one of our major
Multiple commodity- and issue-specific reports were
market supply shortage of RSPO-certified palm kernel standards of sustainability and social responsibility. sourcing origins.
released during the year, such as the Nestlé Cocoa Plan
oil. We are working with industry bodies to demonstrate,
Progress Report and Towards Forest Positive Cocoa report.
regardless of this market situation, our 100% commitment
Nespresso’s The Positive Cup: Accelerate positive impact
to the due date.
to 2030 report was published in early 2023. Nescafé also
engaged with over 1000 registrants in a live event for the
Human rights
launch of the Nescafé Plan 2030.
During 2022, we worked closely with external expert
organizations to develop action plans that address 10
Environment
salient issues identified in our Human Rights Framework
In 2022, we continued efforts to help protect and restore
and Roadmap. These were published in Q1 2023.
the environment through the implementation of our Net
Zero Roadmap. Examples of this include biodiversity impact
We also saw progress on existing programs that address
assessments, farmer training in regenerative agriculture
human rights. During the year, the volume of cocoa sourced
techniques, our Forest Positive strategy and projects to
through the Nestlé Cocoa Plan increased to 68.3% of total
help regenerate local water cycles. For 2022, for the first
cocoa sourced. The plan extended its coverage in Brazil and
time, we are reporting progress toward our commitment
the groundwork was laid to bring producers in Cameroon
to source 20% of our key ingredients through regenerative
and Nigeria into the plan. The program is designed to
agriculture methods by 2025.
improve livelihoods in cocoa-growing communities,
covering 3462 farmers in Brazil.
Notably, our network of at least 25 pilot farms in 15
countries aiming for net zero continues to serve as a proof
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 31
Outlook Precision crop spraying
A grain by drone can reduce
chemical usage and
In 2022, we refined our Produced Sustainably framework
carbon footprints.
and decided to split our original KPI into two. From 2025,
we will report a second KPI, which will assess the maturity
of our direct suppliers’ Human Rights and Environmental of hope
Due Diligence (HREDD) management systems and
processes. This KPI is designed to help us comply with
More CO can be captured
mandatory HREDD legislation and ensure that suppliers 2
in the soil by adopting
are cascading HREDD requirements throughout the supply regenerative agriculture.
chain. This new KPI will be in addition to the existing
produced sustainably indicator, which assesses the
performance of volumes at a production level against social, Lowering our carbon footprint in From hands-on advice at the farm to remote Outstanding results
environmental and animal welfare criteria set out in our technical support, the Indigo team brought The newly adopted regenerative agriculture
Responsible Sourcing Standard. rice farming. new ideas to life for Bowers and other practices at the Bowers farm achieved the
Arkansas rice farmers, such as minimizing desired effect without any reduction in yield.
Additionally, we will begin tracking progress against the Agriculture holds huge potential for improving tillage, alternate wetting and drying irrigation, This win-win, pragmatic and collaborative
implementation of our salient issue action plans, published lives and helping to protect the environment. precision drone-controlled crop spraying and approach by Indigo is helping convince
in Q1 2023, as identified in our Human Rights Framework With this in mind, over the last two years we furrow irrigation. farmers like Trey Bowers to place their trust in
and Roadmap. These are crucial to strengthen our level
implemented two regenerative agriculture pilot Nestlé’s regenerative agriculture practices.
of due diligence across our value chain and to support A dairy farmer at
programs in our rice supply chain in the United Indigo has worked with the
one of the farms
enabling environments for the respect and promotion of
that supplies us in States. Through this, we hoped to reduce And the Bowers farm is just one example.
human rights. Cumbria, England. CO e emissions, water and fertilizer usage, Climate Action Reserve to help In total, our Purina PetCare program
2
and input costs for farmers – helping to boost encompassed 72 000 bushels from nine
develop the most rigorous soil
their margins. farmers. It is expected to save over 461 million
liters of water and create GHG savings of 300
carbon methodology on the
Our US-based Purina PetCare brand is Nestlé’s tonnes of CO e.
2
market – and is currently the
largest rice user, so we joined forces with
the sustainable rice program of brewing Already the potential of the project is clear.
only soil carbon program that
company Anheuser-Busch and Indigo Scale up toward 2023-2025 is estimated to
Agriculture – an innovative agtech company deliver 83 000 tonnes of CO e savings – the
has produced credits at scale 2
leveraging science and technology to help equivalent of taking 6000 cars off the road
improve the sustainability and profitability of under this standard. for three years – across 190 000 cumulative
the agriculture industry. We partnered further acres of land, an area about the size of
with Indigo to trial a program within Nestlé’s New York City.
Gerber brand.
“I’m all about wanting this
The Indigo technical team knows what it
world to stay sustainable
takes to make a difference thanks to real-
world experience – many of their experts and to keep everything
are former or active rice farmers. At the
for everybody to have long
Bowers Farm, a 1800-hectare father-and-
son operation in Arkansas that produces rice term. I’m trying to leave
for Gerber, we trialed a sustainable farming
something for my kids. I
program to reduce emissions, nitrogen usage
want Bowers to be in a place
and groundwater usage. These programs
support farmers in their transition toward where if they want to farm,
more sustainable farming practices across
they can just farm.”
their operations.
Technology
has a role
to play in
regenerative
Trey Bowers
agriculture –
Farmer
including
advanced
monitoring.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 32
Human rights and
resilient communities
Background Approach SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
People and respect for human rights are at the core of We have been working to incorporate human rights in all
Nestlé’s culture and values and an intrinsic part of the aspects of our business for many years. Today, human
transition to a just, equitable and regenerative food system. rights elements have been mainstreamed into 22 Nestlé
policies and embedded across our governance structures.
Providing fair and resilient livelihoods with safe and
dignified work, while reducing inequalities, can advance Our board-level Sustainability Committee will ensure that
and promote human rights. At the same time, contributions we carry out due diligence and report on our most severe
to global emissions can be reduced by accelerating the human rights-related risks. It also oversees our compliance
transition to regenerative practices. We want to reward with our pledges and the regulatory framework.
farmers in our supply chains for producing quality
ingredients and making positive contributions to their In addition, our ESG and Sustainability Council advises our
communities and the environment. executive management on making informed and fact-based
decisions to manage salient issues in the upstream supply
We aim to use our scale, experience and resources to chain. It is supported by the work of an internal Human
contribute to this vision, by raising awareness of human Rights Community of around 40 people from different
rights, promoting best practices and empowering people functions with human rights responsibilities.
across our operations and within our supply chains.
We were early adopters of the United Nations Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights and the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We have also
piloted multiple programs to assess and remedy risks on
the ground.
Through strong governance, forward-looking advocacy and
leading transparency, we want to be at the forefront of our
industry. Our work in this area will further strengthen our
contribution to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs). Our Human Rights Framework and Roadmap – and
the resultant action plans addressing our salient issues
Advancing human rights throughout – will help us stay ahead of emerging human rights due
diligence legislation in different markets where we operate.
agricultural value chains is key to
the transition toward a fairer, more
regenerative global food system and
building a more resilient future for
Human rights touch
our planet and its people.
almost every aspect of our
sustainability approach.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 33
Due diligence is at the heart of our new Nestlé viewpoint A clearer understanding
Overall, implementing the action plans will give us a better
Human Rights Framework
understanding of the risks we face and help make sure we
Connecting
invest our time and resources in the right places. Some of
To enhance our ability to assess, address and report on the granularity required might seem time consuming now
human rights risks, we have developed dedicated action the dots but in the long term the approach will make the team more
plans for each of our salient issues. efficient and systematic.
Our action plans are designed to articulate our strategy for We will, of course, continue to complement our efforts in
assessing, addressing and reporting on each salient issue, our supply chains with collective action. We will promote
defining what we need to do across our value chain, as well collaboration between our multiple stakeholders and
as what collective action can be taken. They are supported work to strengthen the links between Nestlé’s global and
by the following enablers: market-level teams – particularly those in priority countries
Barbara Wettstein identified by our action plans through a risk assessment.
Human Rights Manager,
And we will engage with civil society and government to
Sustainable Sourcing
enable the right conditions to tackle the root causes of
human rights risks in order to trigger a positive impact on
the ground.
Enabler 1 Enabler 2 Operationalizing our human rights
Governance Policies and
We’ve learnt a lot over the years about how to enhance
and incentives control systems action plans.
our ability to assess, address and report transparently on
We will integrate human We will leverage our policies
human rights risks. Now we’re further strengthening that
rights at all levels of our and control systems to
After 13 years in Nestlé’s Public Affairs team I made
approach. It will be challenging. There are many moving
governance structure. ensure human rights are
the unusual move from a communications role to an
pieces – all going at different speeds. So, it will take time
embedded throughout
operational one in Nestlé, as a Human Rights Manager.
to create synergies and bring different areas up to the next
the organization.
I’m grateful to Nestlé for the opportunity because it is a
level. But, by bringing the big picture into focus, we aim to
chance for me to dive deeper into the nitty gritty of this
ultimately accomplish real change on the ground.
important topic. My main challenge over the next 12 months
will be the operationalization of our salient issue action
Due plans in the supply chain.
Diligence
Our Human Rights Framework The Nestlé Cocoa
Assess – Address – Report What excites me is not just the importance of this work,
Plan has been
Our Human Rights Framework and Roadmap, published in
working to improve Salient Issues but the challenge involved. To bring our salient issue
2021, describes our multifaceted role in promoting a just human rights in Côte
Action Plans action plans to life, we will need teamwork across a
d’Ivoire since 2012.
transition that prioritizes people. It places due diligence at
huge spectrum of the company, breaking down silos and
the core of our approach and defines the five enablers that
connecting the dots. This is because human rights is such
Enabler 3 Enabler 4
support our work.
Engagement Strategic an interconnected topic that touches on multiple areas, such
and advocacy partnerships as our climate, water, regenerative agriculture, sustainable
It also identifies 10 salient issues where human rights
sourcing and Forest Positive strategies, among others.
We will engage with key We will partner with
may be most at risk in our business and value chain. We
stakeholders and advocate thought-leading and
published action plans for each of these salient issues in
We need to look at human rights from a systems
for smart due diligence boots-on-the-ground
Q1 2023 and have committed to reporting on our progress
perspective. For example, Indigenous Peoples’ and Local
legislation and collective organizations.
in implementing them by 2025.
Communities’ land rights and deforestation risks are clearly
action on the ground.
linked, so it makes sense for teams to combine efforts and
Stakeholder engagement and partnerships have long been
resources to deal with the root causes of both. My role is to
an important part of our strategy. We collaborate with a
ensure there is a thread that links human rights initiatives
wide range of organizations on human rights issues, such
across all our 14 key ingredients and build synergies across
as the Fair Labor Association and the International Cocoa Enabler 5
the different projects my sustainable sourcing colleagues
Initiative, among many others. Transparency and reporting
are driving.
We will provide a high level of transparency of the
progress we make and the challenges we face.
By 2025, we will report on our progress This truly cross-commodity approach will give us the
chance to learn from best practices already used in
on implementing all our salient issue
some areas of the business and apply them to others –
introducing consistent systems, processes and tools
action plans. Our salient issue action plans include gender equality
where needed. and living income approaches.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 34
Performance Now published, we will start implementing these action Child Labor Monitoring
plans in 2023. To maximize effectiveness, each action plan and Remediation
In 2022, we developed action plans for our salient issues
will be integrated into relevant ingredient strategies, such System performance
and published them in Q1 2023. These plans are the critical
as the Nestlé Cocoa Plan for cocoa, the Nescafé Plan 2030
link between our ambitions for advancing human rights
for coffee and our dairy sourcing strategy.
and our ability to accomplish real change on the ground, all
while strengthening our due diligence approach.
We are also developing reporting indicators for each action
plan. We continue to train new employees on human rights
Action plans work by initiating direct steps across our
through mandatory training and will be updating training
value chain to assess and address human rights risks,
for specific functions as action plans are rolled out.
and to monitor and report on prevention and remediation
activities. They are also an expression of how we can use
Our salient issues
our influence to actively support collective engagement
– Right to water and sanitation
and collaboration between stakeholders to address the root
– Living income and living wage
causes of human rights issues.
– Forced labor and responsible recruitment
– Health and safety at work
Our internal Human Rights Community worked with
– Gender equity, non-discrimination and non-harassment
external expert organizations to jointly create action
– Freedom of association and collective bargaining
frameworks, core actions and timelines. For instance, to
– Indigenous Peoples’ and Local Communities’ land rights
develop the action plan on Indigenous Peoples’ and Local
– Data protection and privacy
Communities’ Land Rights, we worked with Proforest and
– Child labor and access to education
Landesa, on living income we worked with Sustainable Our income accelerator
– Right to food and access to nutritious, affordable and
program is an example
Food Lab and on the Right to Water and Sanitation, we
of our human rights adequate diets
collaborated with twentyfifty. work in action.
Improving human rights can bring wider benefits
Our action plans shine a spotlight on how integral human
Nestlé Tackling child labor risks in cocoa
rights are to all parts of our business. Respecting and
has been
In early 2022, the Nestlé Cocoa Plan announced the launch
promoting human rights is key to delivering our wider helping to
tackle child of an innovative income accelerator program, primarily to Côte d’Ivoire Ghana
commitments and our journey to advance regenerative food
labor risks
help tackle child labor risks (see the Toward a living income
systems at scale. in West
168 506 6312
Africa case study).
since 2012.
For example, our income accelerator program in cocoa
Cumulative total number Cumulative total number
The Nestlé Cocoa Plan has long been innovative. We were
(see the Toward a living income case study) demonstrates of children who have of children who have
the first company in the cocoa sector to introduce a Child
how we can help improve incomes and contribute to received support received support
Labor Monitoring and Remediation System (CLMRS) in our
addressing poverty, which in turn reduces child labor risks
and deforestation risks. Similarly, addressing the right to supply chain and many companies have now adopted this as 8155 819
a leading tool for tackling child labor risks by working directly
food and improving access to nutritious, affordable food
Number of children identified Number of children identified
with communities on the ground. Our CLMRS prioritizes
is part of our wider ambitions for enhancing nutrition. This
who reported no longer engaging who reported no longer
access to education, including building and renovating
action plan follows a collaboration between Nestlé and
in activities posing a risk of child engaging in activities posing
schools and securing birth certificates for registration.
Tufts University, which examined the nexus between the
labor at the two most recent a risk of child labor at the two
right to food and regenerative food systems. The right to
follow-up visits (6307 in 2021, most recent follow-up visits
The CLMRS is a multi-stage process that starts with raising
water and sanitation can be linked to our work on helping 4838 in 2020) (738 in 2021, 693 in 2020)
awareness. Community Liaison People visit farmers and
to protect the quality of natural waters and stewarding
cooperatives and, based on visits and surveys, identify
water resources.
2021 2022 2021 2022
children at risk. We carry out follow-up visits with each of
Households covered 69 318 72 625 Households covered 10 711 14 797
these children and record the number who report that they
Our long-term Forest Positive strategy, published in 2021, is by CLMRS to prevent by CLMRS to prevent
are no longer at risk during two consecutive visits. In 2022, and address child and address child
helping us embed protection for Indigenous Peoples’ and
labor risks labor risks
the number of children identified who reported no longer
Local Communities’ land rights, while helping smallholder
Children covered by 94 748 98 674 Children covered by 5 978 11 669
farmers develop sustainable livelihoods. engaging in activities posing a risk of child labor at the two CLMRS to prevent CLMRS to prevent
most recent follow-up visits was 8155 in Côte d’Ivoire and and address child and address child
labor risks labor risks
819 in Ghana.
Total number 29 424 11 532 Total number 2809 3503
of children who of children who
received support received support
In the last year the Nestlé Cocoa Plan expanded its reach,
to cover 68.0% of Nestlé’s cocoa supply (up from 50.6%)
last year, including a greater presence in Brazil.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 35
Nestlé Cocoa Plan –
Toward
Income Accelerator Program
In early 2022, following a successful pilot,
the Nestlé Cocoa Plan launched an innovative
income accelerator program. The program
a living income
aims to tackle child labor risks by incentivizing
and supporting change in cocoa farming
households, helping them toward a living
income. It does this through a cash incentive,
directly paid to the cocoa-farming family
through mobile money, and support across
four areas: pruning to improve cocoa farm
Why farmers’ incomes matter.
productivity, child education, agroforestry
and additional incomes. Women and gender
equality are a key focus.
We are working to help address a number of
risks in our supply chains, from child labor
The program is now being tested at scale
to deforestation. Often, these challenges
with over 10 000 farming households in Côte
seem unrelated. Yet there is often a common
d’Ivoire. Cocoa farm productivity is supported
underlying cause: poverty.
through training, equipping and subsidizing
pruning groups. Agroforestry is supported
We strongly believe that farming families
Coffee Coffee berries being
by distributing forest and fruit trees, while
should earn an income that allows them to
harvested. Both Nescafé
Our coffee business is also working to help farmers reach a additional incomes for women are supported
and Nespresso are maintain a decent standard of living. Over
living income, for example through the Nescafé Plan 2030, implementing living income through setting up village savings and loans
the years, we have worked to help improve
initiatives to help ensure
announced in October 2022 (see the Uplifting lives and associations combined with gender and
coffee farming families earn the livelihoods of smallholder farmers by
livelihoods case study). Nespresso is working with Fairtrade a living wage. entrepreneurship training. In the first year,
promoting income diversification, improving
and other NGO partners to help maximize and protect 10 186 hectares were pruned by 385 pruning
productivity, empowering women and creating
the incomes of farmers in its Nespresso AAA Sustainable groups, 210 570 forest and fruit trees were
village savings and loans associations – often
Quality™ Program. in places with no access to banking services. Nescafé – incentivizing regenerative, A farmer distributed and 17 144 people have already
In 2022, we took a major step forward. resilient coffee farming working been registered to receive mobile payments
with
Nescafé and Nespresso are also active members of the through the program. KIT Royal Tropical
During 2022, Nescafé started pilots in Côte Nespresso’s
International Coffee Organization’s taskforce, which AAA Institute is evaluating the impact of the
d’Ivoire, Indonesia and Mexico as part of the Video: Income
Sustainable
contains a working group led by the non-profit organization program and we will publish results. accelerator program
Nescafé Plan 2030. The objective is to help and Quality™
Sustainable Food Lab, exploring living income for Program in
incentivize smallholder farmers to accelerate
Indonesia.
coffee farmers.
their transition to regenerative agriculture
practices. All pilots include conditional cash
“As part of the income accelerator
incentives for adopting regenerative agriculture
Outlook program, I also received bonuses
practices. Other complementary measures
will be added, such as income protection with
which notably enabled me to
Our immediate priority is to begin implementing our salient
weather insurance and greater access to credit
issue action plans. We will carefully monitor progress to send my children to school
lines for farmers. Nescafé will monitor progress
ensure they are effective.
throughout 2023 with support from the impact and which also enabled
assessment partnership with Rainforest
We are monitoring the income accelerator program and me to take on workers for
Alliance, as well as specialized partners
expect to assess its effectiveness in late 2023. Should this
such as the Sustainable Food Lab, which is clearing the field and
initial phase prove successful, we plan to scale up to 30 000
developing capabilities for farmer income
farmers across Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana in 2024. The Nestlé the brigade group to
assessment, strategy and progress tracking.
Cocoa Plan will continue to expand worldwide, notably in
prune the rest of my plot.
Brazil, Cameroon, Ecuador, Mexico and Nigeria.
So it helped me on
Support for progress toward living income is a focus of the those plans.”
Nescafé Plan 2030 and will also form part of our strategies
for dairy sourcing. Allou Ngoran Aimé
Cocoa farmer in Tafissou
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 36
Supporting tasty MICRONUTRIENT FORTIFICATION
Number of servings of
total products and of
affordable products with
micronutrient fortification*
and balanced diets
(billion)
Number of servings of total products
with micronutrient fortification
Number of servings of affordable
nutrition with micronutrient fortification
Background Our science-based
211.4
207.4**
205.3
approach to nutrition
Good nutrition is fundamental to everyone’s
health and well-being. A balanced diet
Through our R&D organization, we innovate
should provide all the nutrients and hydration
with purpose to unlock the power of food
a person needs to remain healthy at their
for today and for generations to come. Our
stage in life, in an affordable and sustainable
breakthrough discoveries provide the scientific
manner. Food also brings people together in
basis for innovations, from nutrition and health
daily life and on special occasions.
research to food safety, material sciences,
128.4** 129.2
agricultural sciences and packaging. We
However, many people around the world are 120.0
translate discoveries into tasty, nutritious,
either not getting enough food or eating too
affordable and sustainable products at our
much food with limited nutrients, leading
R&D centers for specific categories, such as
to malnutrition, undernutrition, vitamin and
dairy, coffee, culinary, confectionery, infant
mineral deficiencies or obesity. Affordability
nutrition and petcare.
is a key concern – an estimated three billion
people cannot afford a nutritious diet.
Our innovation focus includes:
Today, making nutritious and sustainable
– Delivering early-life, medical and
food affordable and accessible to all is more
pet nutritional solutions backed by
important than ever.
strong science
– Developing technologies to reduce
With our extensive portfolio, Nestlé is well
nutrients of concern, while innovating more
placed to help address these challenges. We
nutrient-dense products by increasing
2020 2021 2022
aim to provide tasty, nutritious and affordable
positive nutrients and ingredients
products to people of all life stages around the
– Making nutritious products affordable
world, while inspiring people to enjoy food that * The ‘big four’ micronutrients are iron,
and delivering technologies for vitamin A, iodine and zinc.
supports their health. In this way, we can help
micronutrient fortification ** Number corrected to adjust for some
bring tasty and balanced diets within the reach
products that were reclassified.
– Providing nutritious plant-based products
of billions of people.
across categories, brands and geographies
SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
– Strengthening our agriculture sciences
expertise to enable the transition toward
regenerative food systems
We use our R&D expertise to offer a wide
Our regional R&D centers in Africa, China,
India, Latin America and Southeast Asia
range of foods, beverages and nutrition
tailor innovations to local nutritional needs
services at scale, helping to bring tasty and preferences.
and balanced diets within reach for
billions of people across all occasions
and life stages.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 37
Plant-based products Nestlé viewpoint
Demand for plant-based products continues to create
opportunities for new products across our portfolio, which
Preserving nutritional
also contribute to our sustainability goals. Our expertise
in proteins, nutrition, plant sciences and culinary arts
enables us to develop tasty, nutritious and sustainable
goodness from farm to fork
plant-based products across brands, categories, formats
and geographies.
Guiding responsible consumption
We believe all our products can play a role in a balanced
diet. To guide responsible consumption, we provide
Sustainability, affordability Approach marginalized populations. Adequate processing and
information and services to help people make healthier
and nutritional value are all
technologies can help preserve or even enhance nutritional
key considerations when choices as part of a balanced diet. Examples include: Petra Klassen Wigger
Our focus is on improving the nutritional value of our
we examine the recipies in – Voluntarily implementing evidence-based and Global Scientific Advisor Nutrition value, for example by improving micronutrient availability
our portfolio. products, on offering the pleasure people look for in and Health
while providing safe and tasty products.
government-endorsed front-of-pack nutritional labeling
food through products that are affordable, nutritious and
schemes such as the Health Star Rating and Nutri-Score
sustainably produced, and on guiding people toward
While increasing dietary diversity and nutrient density are
– Carefully designed portion sizes for treats – allowing for
responsible consumption where it matters most. Why nutritional quality needs to be
key aspects in improving diets, managing portion size
indulgence in moderation
also has great potential. Eating more foods that are low in
– Recipes and guidance for pairing our foods with fresh
Improving the nutritional value of our products addressed holistically.
energy but high in nutrients, such as vegetables and fruits,
ingredients to create balanced meals.
We are continuously improving the nutritional profile of our
while eating less foods that are high in energy is in line with
products by adding more whole grains, proteins and fibers
To explore external and diverse scientific perspectives on dietary recommendations. Research shows that individual
Responsible marketing
while reducing sugars, sodium and saturated fats – without
nutrition and health, in 2022 we hosted the 15th edition responses to meals vary greatly between people even when
We advertise our products according to strict policies –
compromising taste.
of the Nestlé International Nutrition Symposium at Nestlé consuming identical foods. Predicting these responses to
especially when it comes to how we communicate to
Research in Switzerland. foods and personalizing diets present big opportunities for
children and how we promote breast-milk substitutes.
We have committed to reduce sodium in frequently
preventing illness. However, this approach is not available
These include the Nestlé Marketing Communication to
consumed products by 2025 and 2030. The commitment
It is well acknowledged that we can only meet the needs or affordable for many people today.
Children Policy and the Nestlé Policy and Procedures
sets maximum limits of salt for different categories of
of a growing world population through innovation, while
for the Implementation of the WHO International Code
products, from noodles to snacks and sauces. Initial
helping to protect the environment and tackle climate Translating all this knowledge into action requires a cross-
of Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes. In addition, we
reductions are targeted for the end of 2025 and a second
change. The interconnectedness of these topics led us functional food systems approach that delivers innovative
publish an annual compliance report on our policy for
set of further reductions by 2030.
to choose the theme “Preserving nutritional goodness solutions. These solutions must be evidence based,
implementing the WHO Code on the Marketing of Breast
from farm to fork”. More than 20 leading inter-disciplinary adapted to the local economic and cultural context and
Milk Substitutes. This report provides insight on Nestlé’s
Our peer-reviewed nutrient-profiling system has been
experts from around the globe shared current scientific able to address challenges related to climate change, a
robust WHO Code compliance system and highlights that
helping us to improve the nutritional value of our
evidence, with a view to driving action on how we produce growing world population and increasing malnutrition,
when cases of non-compliance are discovered, Nestlé takes
products for decades. We recently incorporated a new
and provide healthy, affordable, sustainable and culturally while effectively managing trade offs. Additionally, there is
swift actions to address them.
feature to benchmark against the global food supply,
acceptable diets for all. need for collective action from governments and private-
using an algorithm published in 2021 (Nutrients. 2021
sector companies. We remain inspired by the insightful
Nestlé for Healthier Kids
Feb 9;13(2):576). The algorithm considers five nutrients
There was a consensus on the urgency of providing presentations and interactions and motivated to continue
Child malnutrition remains a key societal challenge that has
recognized by the World Health Organization: sugar,
nutrient-dense foods that are affordable and produced in working together in transitioning to regenerative food
many forms: under-nutrition, overweight and obesity, and
saturated fat, sodium, fiber and protein. Defined by dietary
a sustainable manner. Experts concluded that nutritional systems that provide balanced and affordable diets.
micronutrient deficiencies. Over 340 million children and
guidelines, this evolved profiling system is the base of our
value should be considered from farm level, since
adolescents aged 5-19 are overweight or obese.
Nestlé has
internal formulation targets that are category specific and
agronomic practices and technologies can help maintain
committed to technically feasible. With the Nestlé for Healthier Kids program (N4HK), we and enhance the nutritional quality of the raw materials “Even with all the challenges that are facing
we use in our products. For example, growing biofortified
bring together all our efforts to support parents and the world today, I do think we can feed a world
Affordable nutrition
reduce sodium wheat in Ethiopia can help ensure that at-risk children get
caregivers to raise healthier kids and to inspire children
Product access and affordability are more important than population of 9 to 10 billion healthily, sustainably
enough zinc.
themselves. Through nutrition education and services, we
in our global ever given the social and economic instability and supply
help promote balanced diets and healthy lifestyle habits and equitably. We need action on all fronts:
chain constraints the world is facing. Nestlé remains
Nutrient profiling is a great tool for improving nutrient
portfolios by for children aged 3 to 12 years, encouraging kids and
committed to providing essential food products in markets modify diets, increase production, reduce waste
density, taking into account local context including dietary
parents to:
worldwide. Our offer includes widely consumed items such
2025 and – Eat balanced meals, with more fruits and vegetables guidelines. During the symposium, a panel of experts and improve food governance. If we fail on food we
as Maggi bouillon, dairy products and porridges. Many of
concluded that fortifying foods with locally relevant
– Eat managed portions
fail on everything.”
2030 in key our affordable products contribute to addressing common
micronutrients remains a cost-effective strategy to address
– Drink water
deficiencies through micronutrient fortification.
micronutrient deficiencies and gaps for vulnerable and
categories. – Be physically active Sir Professor Charles Godfrey
Keynote speaker at the Nestlé International Nutrition Symposium
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 38
Reporting on nutritional value at In the UK, 69% of our portfolio is in scope In Singapore, the Healthier Choice Symbol In Brazil, the front-of-pack legislation will take
Transparency on
market level for the UK Nutrient Profiling Model, which system is applied. This voluntary system effect in October 2023.
Our markets around the world have worked assigns foods as either ‘High in Fat, Sugar provides specific nutrition criteria for a range of
for years to improve the nutritional value of and Salt’ (HFSS), or not. This model is not a categories, and 87% of net sales in Singapore
Brazil (% net sales)
our products. For 2022, we are reporting FOP labelling scheme. Most of our products are from products in scope for the scheme.
Specialized nutrition 9
our portfolio
on the nutritional value of local portfolios in in scope of the UK system are classified
0 Warning legends 37
13 countries*, using the local, government- favourably as “non-HFSS”.
1 Warning legends 15
endorsed nutrient profiling system. The data is Singapore (% net sales) 2 Warning legends 33
UK GOVERNMENT
intended to provide a baseline for an individual NUTRIENT PROFILING MODEL UK (% net sales) Specialized nutrition 8 3 Warning legends 0
country. The figures may evolve as nutrient Specialized nutrition 4 Healthier Choice 43 Other** 6
Non-HFSS 42
profiling systems evolve, and as we continue to No Logo 44
HFSS 27
improve the nutritional profile of our products. Other** 5
In Chile, specialized nutrition products and
Nestlé is the first company For the first two groups, what we call our Other** 27
foods and beverages without warning legends
occasional enjoyment related categories,
Each national and regional nutrient profiling In Thailand, the Healthier Choice Logo system
to use the Health Star Rating represent 37% of our sales.
we complement our actions with stricter system has distinct characteristics, with a Asia and Oceania is applied. This system provides specific
(HSR) system as the basis responsible marketing practices. We also different purpose and differences in the foods In Australia and New Zealand, the Health nutrition criteria for a range of categories, and
provide nutrition education programs, services included, nutrient thresholds, and labels. Star Rating (HSR) FOP scheme is voluntarily 74% of net sales in Thailand are from products
Chile (% net sales)
for transparently reporting and support covering all categories, to help Therefore, we report separately on each applied. Products in scope for the HSR in scope for the scheme.
Specialized nutrition 4
people make informed choices and enjoy all contribute to 51% of total net sales in these
country as the figures for different countries 0 Warning legends 33
nutritional values for our entire foods as part of a balanced diet. two countries.
cannot be compared. Details of each nutrient 1 Warning legends 11
profiling system and how we applied it to our 2 Warning legends 13
global portfolio.
As PetCare is an important category for Nestlé, Thailand (% net sales)
global and local portfolios are available in 3 Warning legends 26
Australia/New Zealand
Specialized nutrition 10
for additional transparency we report two sets
our Nutritional Value Transparency Reporting (% net sales) 4 Warning legends <1
Healthier Choice 31
HSR is a well-respected nutrient profiling of figures, one excluding PetCare sales within Scope and Methodology. Specialized nutrition 8 Other** 13
No Logo 43
system used on front-of-pack nutrition labels the Specialized nutrition category and one HSR 3.5 and above 14
Other** 16
in some countries and applied by the Access to including PetCare sales. Europe HSR between 1.5 and 3.0 17 In Mexico, the implementation of warning
Nutrition Initiative (ATNI). HSR rates products on In France and Germany, the voluntary Nutri- HSR less than 1.5 20 legends has started in October 2020.
Latin America
the total energy, saturated fat, sodium and sugar In 2022, 37% of net sales excluding PetCare Other** 41
Score front-of-pack (FOP) scheme is applied.
Several Latin American countries have
content, which can lower the score, as well as came from products with a HSR of 3.5 or
Products in scope for the Nutri-Score scheme
implemented mandatory nutritional labelling
the fibre, protein, fruit, vegetables, nuts and above and 20% from products for meeting contribute to 34% of total net sales in France In Malaysia, the Healthier Choice Logo system is Mexico (% net sales)
schemes based on nutrient-specific warning
legumes content, which can increase the score. specialized nutrition needs. applied. This voluntary system provides specific Specialized nutrition 18
and 46% of total net sales in Germany.
legends. Although these appear similar, each
nutrition criteria for a range of categories, and 0 Warning legends 40
country has specific criteria. For example,
We believe that all products can play a role in a The nutritional When When 56% of net sales in Malaysia are from products 1 Warning legends 5
balanced diet. Given our broad global portfolio, value of PetCare PetCare France (% net sales) in scope for the scheme. the energy content of foods and beverages 2 Warning legends 13
excluded from included
we provide visibility of the nutritional value of our portfolio* specialized in specialized Specialized nutrition 9 is a separate criterion in Argentina, Chile and 3 Warning legends 5
four different groups of products: nutrition nutrition Nutri-Score A 17 Mexico only. 4 Warning legends 0
(79% of net (97% of net
– Products with a calculated HSR of less than sales covered) sales covered) Nutri-Score B 3 Malaysia (% net sales) 5 Warning legends 0
Nutri-Score C 4 In Argentina, the front-of-pack legislation will Other** 19
1.5. These products are occasional treats Net sales from products with a Health Star Rating** of: Specialized nutrition 10
Nutri-Score D 3 take effect in May 2023.
eaten in moderation, with portion guidance, HSR of less than 1.5 21% 17% Healthier Choice 12
Nutri-Score E 7
recipes, tips and advice for balanced diets HSR of 1.5 to less than 3.5 22% 18% No Logo 44 In Peru, specialized nutrition products and
Other** 57
– Products with a calculated HSR of 1.5 to less HSR of 3.5 or above 37% 30% Other** 34 foods and beverages without warning legends
than 3.5. We aim to improve the nutritional Net sales from products where HSR is not applied: Argentina (% net sales) represent 35% of our sales.
Specialized nutrition 3
value while providing portion guidance, Specialized nutrition 20% 35% Germany (% net sales)
0 Warning legends 33
recipes, tips, and advice for balanced diets Specialized nutrition 6
1 Warning legends 8
– Products with a calculated HSR of 3.5 57% Nutri-Score A 3 Peru (% net sales)
2 Warning legends 4
or above. We keep or even improve the Nutri-Score B 11 Specialized nutrition 6
net sales (excluding 3 Warning legends 2
nutritional value with positive nutrients such Nutri-Score C 19 0 Warning legends 29
PetCare) with HSR 4 Warning legends 4
as whole grains and vegetables Nutri-Score D 7 1 Warning legends 14
of 3.5 or above or 5 Warning legends 0
– Specialized nutrition products sold by our Nutri-Score E 6 2 Warning legends 42
Specialized nutrition Other** 46
Other** 48 3 Warning legends 0
Nutrition and Nestlé Health Science (NHS)
Other** 9
businesses, which provide specific or
targeted nutrition benefits and for which the * Excludes products that are not foods or beverages for Some market-level figures have been rounded to achieve 100% for each country.
consumption, and some recent acquisitions. * We originally planned to report on 14 countries including Colombia, which due to changes in
HSR system generally does not apply
the government-endorsed profiling system in December 2022 will now be included in future reporting.
** Health Star Ratings are calculated based on the recipe
for each product and are not necessarily included on the **Other: Products from our PetCare business, non-food items such as coffee machines, and food products not in scope for the local nutrient profiling system,
product label. such as pure coffee in some cases. The detailed scope of assessed products in each country is available in our Nutritional Value Transparency Reporting Scope and Methodology.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 39
Affordable nutrition
We provided 211.4 billion servings of micronutrient fortified
products from iconic brands such as Maggi, Bear Brand
and Nido in 2022. This total includes 129.2 billion servings
of affordable nutrition. New offerings included affordable,
medium-fat milk powder launched in South Africa, which
is enhanced with locally sourced ingredients containing
calcium, iron, vitamins and zinc. In Pakistan, where one in
two children are iron deficient, we launched Bunyad Iron+,
an affordable dairy-based drink fortified with a new source
of iron that is about three times better absorbed by the
body compared with existing sources.
Purina launched Pro Plan In Brazil, Nestlé launched
during 2022 – a multi- two ceral bars co-created
format pet food supplement with young people in a In Brazil, the Gerando Falcões Fruit and Nut bar was
to support pets’ health. Sao Paulo favela and NGO
launched as the first social product from Nestlé. All the
Gerando Falcões.
profits were destined to help the lives of residents from
more than four large favelas in Brazil, distributed in three
regions: Maceió, Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. To date,
Plant-based products
sales of the bar have generated nearly B$ 200 000 (over
In Pakistan, children
Plant-based products generated sales of around
are often iron deficient, CHF 33 000) to help the organization improve lives in
which is why we launched CHF 1 billion in 2022, posting high single-digit organic
Brazil’s favelas.
Bunyad Iron+.
growth. Recent launches include soy-based Milo in
Thailand, Nestlé Veggie plant-based product with probiotics
in Chile, Garden Gourmet Schnitzel in Europe, Garden
Performance legumes, milk and fruits. In Nigeria, our Golden Morn cereal Garden Gourmet Gourmet Voie Gras – an alternative to foie gras – in Spain
launched their
brand contains over 50% whole grains, is fortified with
plant-based and Switzerland, and the Gerber Plant-tastic range of
We continue to make progress in each area of
essential nutrients such as vitamin A and iron and is mainly schnitzel in 2022. organic foods and snacks for toddlers in Europe and
our approach.
made from locally sourced ingredients. Overall, 91% of our
the United States.
cereal products and 99% of our cereal products aimed at kids
Improving the nutritional value of our products
and teens have whole grains as the number one ingredient.
Following the 2021 launch of WUNDA Professional Barista,
In 2022, we reduced the sodium content in products,
our foodservice division Nestlé Professional expanded
including our Malher Chicken Noodle Soup Fortified and
In the spring of 2022, the United States experienced a
its boundaries and launched two new plant-based dairy
Mahler Seafood Creamy Soup. We will report measurable
severe infant formula shortage following a recall of another
alternative products in Greater China offering out-of-
progress in line with our sodium reduction commitment in
manufacturer’s products. We accelerated production and
home operators the “By Barista For Barista” oat and pea
the future. Product innovation is helping us to reduce sugar
in May 2022 flew 500 000 bottle equivalents of Nestlé
versions for hot and cold beverage applications. In Brazil
in our products while still providing great taste. For example,
Health Science’s Alfamino Infant and Alfamino Junior and a and Chile, Nestlé Professional launched the Barista Oat
our Coffee Mate brand in North America has expanded
million bottle equivalents of Gerber Good Start Extensive HA dairy alternative, as well as an innovative powdered
its zero-sugar range to eight varieties in the last year, and
– all for babies with cow’s milk protein allergies. This was
plant-based creamer designed for our Nescafé automatic
our Starbucks brand launched Starbucks Zero with 0g
followed by many more shipments of specialized and non-
machines offer.
added sugars.
specialized Nestlé infant formula, including NAN Supreme
pro and Gerber Gentle. Our plant-based strategy is not only about creating meat
In the United States, our Lean Cuisine brand offers four
and dairy alternatives. The popular Maggi Veggie Masala
frozen meals certified by the American Heart Association
For cats and dogs, we launched Purina Pro Plan supplements Noodles have the same taste as the original but now
as meeting its standards for fat, sodium and cholesterol
– in multiple formats such as oils, powders and tablets – to
include carrots and beans. Plus, Maggi offers recipes
levels. While many factors affect heart disease, diets low in
support mobility, immunity, vitality, healthy skin and coat.
to cook delicious plant-based meals from scratch.
saturated fat and cholesterol may reduce the risk.
Plant-based versions of Wagner Piccolinis provide vegan
and vegetarian options.
To meet toddlers’ unique nutritional needs, we introduced
Gerber Powerblend cereals in China and India. These are
In Latin America, under the Malher brand, we piloted
made from diverse food groups such as whole grains,
a powdered, shelf-stable, plant-based protein blend to
complement egg dishes in a nutritious and affordable way.
When cooking scrambled eggs, omelets and batters, the
soy-based Huevo Más can replace some eggs, but with an
equal amount of protein, fewer calories, less cholesterol
and saturated fats.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 40
Guiding responsible consumption 31 Nestlé for Healthier Kids
What’s on your
To help people enjoy our products as part of a balanced Activities in 2022 included the Nestlé Wellness Campus
Countries
diet, in 2022 we continued the rollout of The Backstory, (NWC), our 10-year flagship school program in the
with breast-
our new on-pack communication system. The Backstory Philippines, run in collaboration with the Philippine
milk substitute
allows our brands to tell purpose-driven stories on the back Department of Education. NWC continued to empower
compliance audits
plate kids?
of our packs while better organizing all required product students, parents and teachers to live healthier lives
(24 in 2021)
information, ensuring transparent nutritional information throughout the COVID-19 pandemic using online learning
and providing portion guidance. modules. New topics introduced in 2022 in addition to
nutrition included sustainability and waste management.
We also continued to roll out our digital services. These NWC now reaches more than 10.5 million students in over
include MyMenuplan, where users can create and share 20 000 schools.
balanced meals and shop for ingredients. Now available
via 23 websites in different countries, new functionality in In Hungary, after a successful pilot, we launched a As part of Nestlé for Healthier As a complement to Nutriplato, in 2022, our
South-East European Market launched the
2022 included personal nutritional statistics such as protein nationwide educational challenge called Etesd az Eszed
Kids, our Nutriplato initiative has
VeggiePlate, to help people make the switch
and macronutrient intakes. In addition, MyMenuIQ is now (Feed your brain), in cooperation with Okos Doboz (Smart
to a balanced plant-based diet. Developed
available via 30 websites and measures the nutritional Box), the largest Hungarian digital education platform. been helping to bring a balanced
with scientific support from the Romanian
balance of a meal on a scale from 0 to 100 to help people The campaign is aimed at increasing children’s knowledge
combine foods for nutritional balance. Finally, five markets of healthy lifestyles, nutrition and sustainability. Since diet within reach for thousands Foundation for Healthy Eating, the VeggiePlate
uses the same principle of visualising the
have introduced chatbots to help people find a recipe to use the project’s inception, children have solved more than
of people in several European space that different plant-based foods should
up ingredients they already have. 127 000 tasks.
take up on the plate.
countries, including France, Italy,
Responsible marketing The Nestlé Wellness Nestlé Professional and Worldchefs inspire children to eat
Campus, now reaches more A six-month campaign promoting the initiative
In 2022, we announced plans to update our Marketing healthier. Through a series of events, around 3800 chefs Romania and Spain, as well as in
than 10.5 million students
included a social media challenge for people to
Communication to Children Policy with a commitment in 20 000 schools, teaching engaged children on the impact food production and
topics such as nutrition, Latin America for five years. eat plant-based foods on #3outof7 days, plus
not to market confectionery, ice cream or water-based consumption has on the environment. This year’s theme –
sustainability and waste
a tasting event, expert interviews, a video and
beverages with added sugars to children below 16 years of management. Growing a Healthy Future – reached over 95 600 children.
two conferences attended by 1800 healthcare
age, becoming one of the first in the industry to adopt such
The objective is to help families to eat well
professionals. The campaign garnered great
strict standards. There were no material sanctions over CHF
and teach their children good nutritional
coverage, with 83 separate independent items
10 million due to products’ labeling or marketing violations
habits by creating tasty, balanced and varied
about VeggiePlate published online, in print
We identified 116 cases of non-compliance with our breast-
meals with portion sizes adapted to the age
or in broadcast media, reaching around three
milk substitute marketing code in 2022. By January 2023,
of their children. The principle is that meals
million people in a week.
we had implemented and published our updated policy on
should contain a large portion of vegetables,
the responsible marketing of breastmilk substitutes with
a protein-rich food (meat, eggs, fish, lentils
Originally launched in Romania, the campaign
a commitment to unilaterally stop the promotion of infant
or beans) and a portion of either wholegrain
is now also active in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
formula globally for babies aged 0-6 months.
pasta, brown rice or potatoes. The Nutriplato
Bulgaria, Croatia and Serbia. To be more
Using the plate itself as
kit helps people to visualize how much food
inclusive, both Nutriplate and VeggiePlate a guide, VeggiePlate
Compliance with the Nestlé Marketing Communication to
from each of these food groups they should
indicates the proportion
nutritional guides are available in Braille
Children Policy* aim to eat. It consists of a plate illustrated to of vegetables and healthy
alphabet and audio versions in Romania, and protein-rich foods and
Channel 2021 2022
show the space each food group should take
carbohydrates to adults
as of 2023 also in Bulgaria, to increase access
Outlook up and a booklet containing science-based and families in a fun,
TV 98.7% 98.4%
for people with visual impairments. actionable way.
nutritional guidance and seasonal recipes that
We will continue our efforts to contribute to tasty and
Websites 100% 100% * For this reporting year, are quick and easy to prepare.
balanced diets. Our evolved nutrient profiling system
EU pledge monitoring
results for TV, Influencers, will guide us for innovations and help us to further
Social media 83.4% 100%
Websites and Social Media Results from a survey in Spain in March 2022
improve our products through adding more wholegrain,
are used as a proxy for the
showed that in that country:
Influencers** 100% 37.5% Compliance with Nestlé fiber and micronutrients, while reducing sugars, sodium
Marketing Communication – 94% of participants rate Nutriplato as a good
and saturated fats. We will also continue to address
to Children Policy. We will
Total 95.5% 83.9% or very good approach
keep using recognized the varying needs across life stages while keeping our
monitoring systems to – 92% of participants said that they had
focus on affordable nutrition. To support the responsible
Engaging the culinary profession report against this KPI. changed their nutritional habits thanks
consumption of treats, we will strengthen our efforts on
** 100% of the audited
Nestlé Professional continued to support various training to Nutriplato
influencers’ posts were providing portion guidance and complementary nutrition
and awareness initiatives. Together with the Culinary Arts
assessed as not appealing
information on pack and through our services. For
Academy Switzerland, Nestlé Professional ran a masterclass to children below 13 years. Around 6000 healthcare professionals are
Following a change in continued transparency we will continue to communicate
for a Culinary Business Management masters degree using Nutriplato to guide their patients.
methodology, breaches
the nutritional value across the portfolio globally and for a
program on nutrition, plant-based, and sustainability topics. for posts not targeted to
children are also included. range of countries.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 41
Food safety Background The analytical capabilities of our laboratories enable us to 91.9%
focus on detecting priority materials such as mineral oils,
High standards of food safety and quality are Ingredients sourced
microplastics, plant toxins and pesticides. In 2022, Nestlé
non-negotiable at Nestlé. Quality is integral to our from Tier 1 supplier
markets, laboratories and quality experts received external
Corporate Business Principles and embedded in our facilities certified to
recognition from numerous national and international
a GFSI-recognized
and quality purpose and values.
award schemes.
food safety
certification program
(2021: 88%)
Approach
Focused on progress
We take care of food safety and quality from field to
By the end of 2022, all inspections and quality control GFSI audits in
consumer homes. We apply international standards in
activities in our manufacturing process were digitized, our facilities
food safety and quality management and help raise the
improving our ability to prevent defects. We now use
bar in our industry using rigorous processes and leading Major and minor
predictive analytics to assess quality risks related to
non-conformance rate
scientific techniques. We empower our people to ensure
suppliers and incoming raw materials, and to provide
our products are safe and compliant, enjoyable and
early warning of potential problems. Beyond our suppliers, 2.85 2.77
nutritious, and in tune with consumer expectations.
we support external initiatives to build food safety
Our internal safety and quality processes help us anticipate
capabilities globally.
and respond to any challenges.
If an incident occurs, we take immediate steps to address it
The many factors our food safety and quality systems
to prevent repeat occurrences, including a thorough analysis
must respond to include tightening regulation, changes
to identify root causes. The most significant example in 2022 2021 2022
to suppliers or ingredients due to factors such as extreme
related to the tragic outbreak of Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome
weather events and geopolitical developments, the Major non-conformance
(HUS) in France and a potential link to Buitoni Fraich’Up
corrective action rate
introduction of regenerative agriculture practices and new
pizza. We immediately conducted a voluntary recall of all
packaging materials or systems, and portfolio innovations
Fraich’Up pizzas, suspended production, and rolled out an 4.25
such as plant-based products.
extensive information campaign aimed at consumers and our
customers. Naturally, we fully cooperated with the authorities
We follow international guidelines in relation to risk
to understand the origin of the contamination. Our deepest
management, carefully checking incoming materials,
sympathies are with the people affected. 2.14
processes and products in our factories. With more than
800 experts dedicated to specialized analytical testing in
In 2022, 98% of our manufacturing and R&D sites were
20 industry-leading laboratories worldwide, we perform more
certified to FSSC22000 – a program recognized by the
than four million tests a year. And we don’t stop there – we
Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). Of tier-1 supplier
2021 2022
work hard to embed a strong food safety culture throughout
facilities, 91.9% were certified to a similar program. In our
our business, where quality is everyone’s responsibility.
own operations, 100% of corrective actions were addressed
Minor non-conformance
and managed within agreed timeframes. There were 10
corrective action rate
Nestlé experts participate in leading industry forums,
product recalls with a potential or actual food safety impact,
including the Steering Committee and the Stakeholder
with foreign bodies and microbiological deviations being 1.56 1.52
Advisory Forum of the Global Food Safety Initiative and the
the main causes (2021: 9 recalls).
FSSC Advisory Committee.
2021 2022
Outlook
Innovations
We will continue to reinforce our quality and food safety
Food safety and quality at Nestlé are fueled by science SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
Safe, high-quality products are at the culture across the organization, working to continue
and technology and our expertise at the Nestlé Institute
strengthening competences, perform more frequent and
heart of our purpose to unlock the of Food Safety and Analytical Sciences. Digital solutions
targeted testing, enhance verification, stay alert to the
are helping us to strengthen key processes, while research
latest research findings in critical risk areas and adapt our
power of food to enhance quality of
and data analytics can help close gaps in scientific
protocols as appropriate, and to make better use of data to
knowledge. In 2022, Nestlé published more than 60 papers
life for everyone. predict and detect potential incidents.
on analytical sciences, food safety research, digital food
safety and bioanalytics.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 42
Packaging and VIRGIN PLASTIC REDUCTION DESIGNED FOR RECYCLING
We aim to reduce our We aim for >95% of our
use of virgin plastics plastic packaging to be
by one third by 2025 designed for recycling
(versus 2018 baseline) by 2025
circularity
95%
-4.0% -8.1% -10.5% -33%
81.9%
74.8% 74.9%
Background
Packaging helps protect food and beverages, ensure
product quality and safety, and prevent food waste. It can
also provide important information, such as the origins of
ingredients and nutritional content.
Globally, the amount of packaging that is inappropriately
created or managed at the end of its life is a serious and
2018 2020 2021 2022 2025 2020 2021 2022 2025
persistent environmental problem. Inappropriate waste
management can also create hazardous conditions for
people. Reducing packaging waste, increasing reusability REUSABLE OR RECYCLABLE PACKAGING PIECES
and recyclability, and managing recovered materials Percentage of packaging Packaging pieces placed on
effectively is therefore critical for society. that is reusable, recyclable the market
or compostable* (billion)
The infrastructure to collect, sort and reuse or recycle
packaging varies not only by country but also by
352
344**
municipality. While packaging recycling schemes in a 330
few countries have helped to start a circular economy for
recovered materials, many regions are not yet at this stage.
By year-end 2022, we saw Extended Producer
85.8%
Responsibility (EPR) laws on packaging active in more
(85.4% in 2021)
than 70 national and local jurisdictions, with an additional
40 laws currently discussing draft legislation on the
topic. These laws, if well designed, could help develop
the necessary infrastructure to collect, sort and recycle
packaging materials.
With other consumer goods companies, we are making
the sustainable transformation of our packaging an urgent
2020 2021 2022
priority. Improving packaging design, production processes,
reuse and recycling rates and end-of-life management can
Packaging waste management is an therefore make a notable impact on our efforts to reach SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
net zero emissions by 2050. Packaging is essential to us
area of major concern for society. We are
and with innovation we are working to minimize the related Our Reporting Scope and
Methodology for ESG KPIs
environmental impacts.
working toward a future where none of document provides details
and definitions and can be
found here
our packaging ends up in landfill or as
* Based on the Ellen MacArthur
Foundation Global Commitment
litter in the environment.
reporting rules
** Restated due to
acquisitions, divestures
and packaging changes.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 43
Approach External viewpoint
Our vision is ambitious: a world in which none of Nestlé’s
packaging, including plastics, ends up in landfill or as litter. A coalition to
We are part of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s New
close the loop
Plastics Economy – an initiative that mobilized the first
voluntary industry action in 2017 – and we have pledged to
work as an industry to create a circular economy for plastic.
The first steps are the elimination of unnecessary and
problematic plastic in our packaging. We are also aiming to
reduce virgin plastics by one third and to design above 95%
of our plastic packaging for recycling by 2025. Action on plastic waste
Ignacio Gavilan To date, 40 retailers, consumer brands and packaging
As a signatory of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Global Director Sustainability, converters in the Consumer Goods Forum’s Plastic Waste
Consumer Goods Forum
Commitment, we now aim to design above 95% of our
Coalition of Action have worked with industry experts,
packaging for acceptance in recycling systems by 2025. We
recyclers and plastics associations from over 25 countries
remain committed to getting to 100%. The Commitment’s Quality Street introduced Packaging sustainability
to develop the Golden Design Rules for plastic packaging.
paper-based packaging
success depends not only on our product design, but also The importance of Nestlé’s membership
for its twist-wrapped innovation Thirty-three leading multi-national companies – including
on the development of infrastructure for collection, sorting sweets worldwide, joining
Nestlé – have now signed up to implement one or more
Smarties, which switched to of the Consumer Goods Forum.
and reuse and recycling around the world, particularly for Packaging innovation takes on many forms and is a
paper packaging worldwide of these rules across their plastic packaging portfolios by
flexible plastics. Governments have made strong progress in 2021. cornerstone to deliver Nestlé’s packaging sustainability
2025. These rules are a set of voluntary, independent and
in waste management infrastructure development, but vision. While every innovation in packaging may be We all know there is a problem with plastic waste. time-bound commitments that aim to minimize waste,
the scale does not yet match the need. This is why we unique, they are all required to deliver a balance between The scale of the issue globally, the impact it is having streamline designs and simplify the plastic recycling
have restated our commitment in terms that we can performance, cost and environmental impact, while on marine life, its carbon footprint and the long-term process – ultimately increasing recycling.
directly impact – design for recycling systems and virgin ensuring the safety and quality of the products they protect. build up of microplastics in the environment all mean
plastics reductions. that we have to act. Collectively, we are seeking to leverage the power of
Our culture of innovation has been recognized for example
coalition members from around the world who represent
Our intention is to follow the nine Golden Design Rules by Fast Company, which named Nestlé USA among the As with many sustainability challenges, no single actor a shared revenue of more than one trillion euros and more
of the Consumer Goods Forum’s Plastic Waste Coalition Best Workplaces for Innovators in Sustainability for our can solve the problem alone. The plastic problem is too than 10% of the global plastic packaging market.
of Action – voluntary, independent and time-bound expanded sustainability efforts in recent years and the systemic. However, the consumer goods sector is in a
commitments to which all members are aligned in order creation of new recyclable packaging. position to deliver impactful industry-led solutions – and
to move toward a circular model. One of these rules is to it must do so.
“remove problematic elements from packaging”. We have With our global reach of 23 R&D centers and the Nestlé
identified several plastic types (including polystyrene) that Institute of Packaging Sciences, Nestlé’s R&D packaging, This is why at the Consumer Goods Forum, we are
are unlikely to be included in municipal recycling systems engineering and material scientists are closely collaborating committed to engaging in specific efforts to use less and
around the world and are phasing out this “negative list” with suppliers, start-ups and universities to accelerate better plastic, and to helping create a better system for
of materials from our packaging portfolio. innovation across all packaging types and materials. managing plastic.
OUR PILLARS
Since 2018, we have endorsed the Ellen MacArthur
We have five pillars of activity: Foundation’s vision for a new plastics economy and have
been working to share knowledge and create partnerships
with multi-national companies such as Nestlé.
Pillar 1: Pillar 2: Pillar 3: Pillar 4: Pillar 5:
Less packaging – Reduce Less packaging – Reuse Better packaging – Better System – Recycle Better system –
Reducing our use and refill Redesign Supporting collection, Rethinking behaviors
of virgin plastics Scaling reusable Pioneering alternative sorting, reuse and Rethinking mindsets
packaging material, packaging and bulk materials, novel recycling infrastructure to and behaviors at Nestlé,
removing unnecessary dispensing systems to technologies and shape a waste-free future. with retail partners and
plastics and increasing eliminate the need for innovative packaging consumers.
Improved packaging design
recycled content. disposable packaging. solutions to facilitate
can minimize plastic waste
reuse and recycling. and improve recycling rates.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 44
Pillar 1: Less packaging – Reduce Pillar 4: Better System – Recycle Percentage of global plastic
In 2022, Nescafé Dolce Gusto unveiled new capsules that In Malaysia, Nestlé joined forces with Petaling Jaya City used in our packaging by
will save more than 2500 tonnes of polypropylene thanks to launch a door-to-door collection and recycling program weight and type (% of total)
to a 13% plastic weight reduction in the capsules. In as a voluntary recovery initiative. As of 2022, we have
Material 2021 2022
Vietnam, Nescafé reduced the thickness of the laminate in successfully collected over 6140 tonnes of post-consumer
PET (Polyester) 32.1% 34.8%
its Granules Sachets sticks – saving 144 tonnes of plastic packaging waste, of which nearly 4072 tonnes have been
annually (the equivalent of 8 million plastic toothbrushes). plastic. This pioneering program has been recognized by PE (Polyethylene) 18.1% 19.1%
both the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) and PP (Polypropylene) 19.4% 21.6%
Nestlé Waters, in France, achieved more than 1500 the Ministry of Environment Malaysia as an example of PO (Polyolefin) 5.4% 6.6%
tonnes of plastic reductions following a multi-year weight separation-at-source good practice.
Laminates 24.1% 17.2%
optimization program for PET bottles that started in 2018.
Others 0.9% 0.7%
Similarly, in Mexico, Nestlé Waters reduced the weight of its In Brazil, Nestlé is collaborating with the non-profit
500 mL and 4L PET bottles and the gauge of polyethylene organization Recicleiros, implementing integrated waste
shrink film, resulting in a 166-tonne saving of plastic collection models with local cooperatives. In 2022, the
Percentage of packaging
per year. collaboration extended waste collection into additional
made from recycled and/or
states including Piracaia. With 27 617 inhabitants, Piracaia
renewable materials**
Nestlé Waters also continued to increase the recycled had no selective collection infrastructure in place. The
content in PET bottles globally. In Egypt, they launched their collaboration aims help curb plastic waste leakage and
first rPET-containing bottles, supporting the development increase recycling.
Nescafé is one of several Performance of a circular packaging system where bottles are collected
brands that significantly
and recycled, “bottle-to-bottle”. In the UK, Nestlé Waters In Fife, Scotland, Nestlé UK & Ireland partnered with Yes
reduced its use of 36.0%
Nestlé is transforming its packaging systems – moving
plastic in 2022, through also moved the entire Buxton Natural Mineral Water range Recycling to process hard-to-recycle plastics. Nestlé – Yes
product redesigns and beyond peak virgin plastic while our business continues to (39.5% in 2021)
to 100% rPET. Recycling’s first investor – has invested GBP 1.65 million
compostable pods.
grow. Virgin plastic in our packaging has reduced by 10.5%
(CHF 1.88 million) toward the site, which started operating
since 2018 (adjusted baseline). At year-end 2022, 81.9% of
Pillar 2: Less packaging – Reuse and refill at the end of 2022 and aims to offer a 15 000-tonnes
our plastic packaging was designed for recycling*.
In France, we launched a pilot with Carrefour, testing new capacity in the production of an alternative to plywood for
refillable solutions for Nescafé, confectionery and petfood the construction, retail and agriculture industries.
** Sustainability Accounting Standards
Several factors have affected the percentage of plastic
products in two stores. Also in France, we offered products
Board Process Foods Standard FB-PF-410a.1
types used in our packaging by weight (see table), including
in Loop reusable packaging in Carrefour for our brands Pillar 5: Better system – Rethinking behaviors
acquisitions and divestments, packaging reduction
Nesquik, Ricoré and Chocapic. In Europe, Nespresso extended its RELOVE pilot scheme in
initiatives, a shift toward paper packaging, product mix Total weight of packaging
2022, allowing customers to return their coffee machines
changes and data quality improvements. These factors (million tonnes)
Launched in 2019 and now available in more than 40 to a repair center where they are carefully refurbished and
impacted both the quantities and recyclability of our plastic
countries, ALDO™ is a Nestlé Professional innovation, prepared for resale. Refurbished machines were already
Total weight of packaging
packaging mix.
that dispenses powdered beverages. We neatly bundled available in Canada and Switzerland, before RELOVE was
in million tonnes
ALDO™ to make it perfect for Nescafé, Milo and Coffee launched in 2021 across Austria, France and the United
Total weight of plastic
Of our total packaging, 85.8% by weight was recyclable or
Mate individual dosing in out-of-home channels, reducing States. In 2022, the scheme was expanded to Denmark, packaging in million tonnes
reusable in 2022, based on the Ellen MacArthur Foundation
packaging waste in more than 16 500 locations. Italy, Portugal, Romania and Sweden.
Global Commitment reporting rules, and 36.0% was made
4.5
from renewable materials.
Pillar 3: Better packaging – Redesign In Italy, Nestlé introduced a digital platform, Dove Lo Butto,
In Latin America, we replaced our printed polystyrene tubs to help consumers identify the nearest location to dispose 3.8
3.6
The above factors, combined with our progress in reducing,
with designed-for-recycling polypropylene tubs for our of their packaging waste appropriately. This is an innovative
rethinking and redesigning packaging for individual
ice cream. In Brazil our Mucilon brand pouches have been digital platform characterized by two functions: barcode
products, resulted in a decrease in the weight of packaging
converted to mono material. This shift delivered more than scanning for correct waste disposal and geo-localization
put on the market to 3.6 million tonnes (2021: 3.8 million
44% CO e reductions versus the previous film structure. We that links to the rules on waste management of each
2
tonnes) and in the number of packaging pieces placed on
also replaced the plastic- and aluminum-layered packaging municipality. In Italy today, every municipality has different
the market to 330 billion (2021: 344 billion**).
of Nesquik with grease-resistant coated paper. rules for waste disposal because of the various technical
0.9
and operational requirements that the local municipal
In 2022, we advocated for a legally binding UN Treaty on
In France, starting in 2021, we began changing the companies must comply with.
Plastic Pollution. We supported the launch of a collective
wrappers of organic Maggi bouillon cubes from a multi- 2020 2021 2022
advocacy group, the Business Coalition for a Global Plastics
layer laminate that included aluminum to recyclable and In Germany and Mexico, Nescafé Dolce Gusto launched a
Treaty. We advocated for well-designed Extended Producer
sustainably sourced paper. consumer education campaign to promote recycling. In the
* As per Ellen MacArthur Responsibility legislation and helped public authorities and
United Kingdom, Buxton Natural Mineral Water launched a 7.7%
Foundation definitions.
stakeholders improve infrastructure with 215 activities and
communications campaign to raise awareness of its closed-
** Restated due to
projects around the world. A selection of projects from Percentage of recycled
acquisitions, divestures loop water bottle to bottle recycling.
and packaging changes. across our five action pillars are described on the right. plastic in plastic packaging
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 45
Outlook The initiative was formally launched in
Fair
November 2022, after over a year of interviews
We are continuing to transform our packaging systems.
and workshops with key stakeholders. Looking
By reducing unnecessary packaging, designing better
forward, it will see us advance by adopting
packaging, modeling collection systems and supporting
these guiding principles in our value chains,
better regulation, we aim to support the packaging system circularity
reporting annually on our progress, and
transition to deliver no waste in landfills or nature.
encouraging other companies to join the
initiative and do the same.
To this end, we are clarifying our commitment with a focus
on what we can directly impact – reducing the use of
virgin plastics, designing out unnecessary and problematic
packaging and designing for reuse and recycling systems.
Strong progress has been made in taking voluntary actions How Nestlé is promoting
under our control, but the development of key infrastructure
does not yet match the need. human rights in the informal
waste sector.
We know there is more work ahead in the shift from A Nestlé team visits the
Nestlé supports Pastimber, CRER Cooperative in
voluntary action to mandatory legislation, enabling a
a Colombian start-up, Madonaldo, Uruguay.
fair distribution of responsibility across the value chain. Waste pickers work in the informal waste led by waste pickers. CRER fills an infrastructure
It transforms collected gap, providing vital waste
Because the road ahead will be shaped by more than sector, some independently and others within
plastic into boards for the sorting in the community
voluntary commitments – a shift which might see a UN organized associations or cooperatives. construction industry – before sending materials to
replacing wood. recycling plants.
Treaty on Plastic Pollution transform the plastics system In many countries, these workers play a
from voluntary to harmonized and mandatory legislative substantial and valuable role in the collection,
frameworks after 2025. sorting and recycling of packaging waste and
other materials. of informal waste workers. The founding
company members include Nestlé, the Coca-
“These principles acknowledge the crucial
At the same time, they are vulnerable to a Cola Company, PepsiCo and Unilever. The
broad range of serious human rights impacts collaboration developed a set of principles to role waste pickers play in global recycling.
– meaning that even as recycling delivers enable the future implementation respecting They are an invitation to work together
positive environmental impacts, it requires the human rights of workers in the informal
to ensure these workers are recognized as
human rights due diligence from companies waste sector for companies.
involved in plastics waste or recycling value legitimate stakeholders, and their rights
chains. As we work to end plastic pollution, The Fair Circularity Initiative aims to bring
are respected – from living income, safe
we must also drive toward an inclusive circular businesses together around these ten priniples
economy for plastics. with the aim of ensuring that the human rights working conditions, enabling them to have
of workers within the informal waste sector
a voice in their futures.”
As part of Nestlé’s pledge to operationalize are respected and their role in circular value
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and chains is recognized. These principles apply
Jodie Roussell
Human Rights – the global standard for how the expectations and responsibilities outlined Nestlé Global Public Affairs and ESG Engagement
businesses should ensure respect for human in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
rights – we made the recognition of the human Human Rights specifically to the informal
rights of informal sector waste workers a waste sector.
priority. As a business, we had been taking
steps to address social impacts in the waste The initiative members started joint advocacy
sector, but we recognized the need for a for the inclusion of wastepickers and
cross-value-chain collaborative approach with recognition of their human rights in the scope
partners to tackle these impacts effectively. of the UN Treaty on Plastic Pollution in March
2022 at the United Nations Environment
The process was convened by the civil society Assembly. Our collective efforts successfully
organization Tearfund and the Global Alliance managed to integrate a specific reference
of Waste Pickers and Women in Informal to waste pickers’ rights and interests in the
Nestlé products being sold Employment: Globalizing and Organizing resolution of the legally binding UN Treaty on
in French supermarket
chain Carrefour, where (WIEGO). It was facilitated by the non- Plastics in 2022.
consumers can use
profit human rights expert consultancy Shift
refillable containers rather
than single-use packaging. and further informed by the perspective
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 46
Opportunities for ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES
Progress toward helping 10 million young people around
the world have access to economic opportunities by 2030
(millions)
young people
Ambition
10.0
Background
5.62
Young people bring fresh ideas and energy to the
workplace. They are a crucial part of any company’s long-
term talent pipeline. Yet, globally, some 73 million young
people were either unemployed in 2022 (six million more 3.89
than pre-pandemic levels) or had a job that kept them
in poverty.
2.45
Facilitating youth employment by creating decent and Cumulative total
Yearly total
exciting job opportunities is important. It supports respect 1.41
for human rights, specifically the right to work, with ‘just
1.73
1.44
and favorable conditions of work and protection against
0.44 0.97 1.04
unemployment’, as set out by the United Nations.
0.04 0.40
Upskilling young people internally, in our supply chains
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
and in society in general, is good for us as an organization,
for individuals and for communities. As a major employer, 5121 64 977
we can make a positive difference by providing employment
Young farmers trained through Young entrepreneurs who have
as well as digital and physical training and skills
the Nestlé Agripreneurship received some basic but tangible
development opportunities.
Program (7422 in 2021) benefit from Nestlé
Supporting young people also brings more diverse 1 415 687
11 495
perspectives into our supply chain. Nowhere is that more
Young people impacted through
relevant than in farming: with young people moving to Apprenticeship and traineeship
digital events (e.g. career
cities, the average age of farmers in many parts of the world opportunities (11 598 in 2021)
fairs, educational webinars,
is now well into the 50s.
e-learning programs) that focus
26 610
on upskilling young people and
Encouraging and supporting young people to pursue
make them more employable
Nestlé employees hired under
livelihoods in farming is an opportunity to help embed
(1 291 306 in 2021)
30 years old, unlimited and
regenerative agriculture methods from the very start of
temporary contracts
working lives and lay the foundations for more regenerative
food systems in the future.
Providing jobs for young people,
investing in youth employability and
empowering young entrepreneurs helps
SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
us recruit talent and embed sustainable
and regenerative approaches around
the world.
* Delivered specifically through
Nestlé needs YOUth initiative.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 47
Two young colleagues in Nestlé viewpoint “Working in an
our East and Southern
Africa region. international team has
Spirit of
really opened my eyes to
the reality of supply chain
solidarity
management and given
me priceless experience
in communication.”
Success and limitations
Since May, we’ve processed 61 applicants, made seven firm
offers for employment to date and I have had the pleasure
Vladyslava Hliebova
of seeing two interns start work in Switzerland and France.
Frédérique Naulette
Intern, Switzerland
HR Director Dairy We would have moved faster except for two constraints.
Category EMENA
First, it was difficult for our Human Resources team in
Ukraine to access candidates. Power outages, building
Approach
damage and shelling are a daily reality that hampered
With millions of people displaced from
Through our Nestlé needs YOUth initiative we create communication with universities to set up the program.
opportunities for young people. Our initiative has three Secondly, there was red tape surrounding work permits.
Ukraine, Nestlé has been helping get
pillars of activity – Employability, Agripreneurship and
“I’ve already grown
Entrepreneurship. At Nestlé, we are committed to Luckily, the European Commission stepped in to make
young people’s careers back on track.
helping 10 million young people gain access to economic permits easier and faster, while local teams remained professionally and
opportunities by 2030. engaged and resilient. I remember speaking to the
personally. I love that
In 2022, soon after the invasion of Ukraine began, we
Ukrainian Head of Talent in May. She was driving from one
discussed with the YOUth Steering Committee how we I immediately get to put
Under each of the three pillars, we provide access to place to another for three hours, looking for a safe place to
Employment and employability
could further support young Ukrainians – particularly those
diverse opportunities. We motivate young people to stay. The whole time she was taking calls on her mobile.
Providing youth access to everything I study into
who had to flee their country or had their studies curtailed.
help them prepare for and access the world of work, Another colleague had already fled to Poland and was
economic opportunities by
We all agreed that we wanted to help not just with product practice, developing both
by providing online training, content and on-the-job working from there.
offering jobs, traineeships,
donations, but by offering young Ukrainians purpose
training opportunities to enhance their employability. internships, apprenticeships hard and soft skills.”
We encourage them to become agripreneurs – introducing and opportunity. The bravery of our colleagues
and training.
them to regenerative agriculture techniques and teaching The ability and willingness of Ukrainians to help,
I’ve worked at Nestlé for 26 years, partly because there is a
them business skills. And we promote entrepreneurship even though their own lives were in danger, is frankly
Agripreneurship
spirit that anything is possible. That incredible idea quickly Zoriana Poperetska
and entrepreneurial opportunities through our Youth remarkable. With their help, we were able to reach out
Encouraging young people to Intern Nestlé Waters,
grew into an internship program. Initially, the plan was to
Entrepreneurship Platform. create livelihoods as farmers, to young people by advertising in Ukrainian. We posted France
support young Ukrainian refugees, but eventually, the scope
on LinkedIn and made a short video that reached 99 000
to run their farms as businesses
expanded to allow students – even those still in Ukraine – to
Additionally, Nestlé is an active advocate for young people. impressions, with 4500 people commenting and engaging.
and to embed regenerative
participate as well.
In this context we collaborate with external organizations,
agriculture methods in support
including the International Labor Organization, the Global One of the reasons why this was possible is that students in
of a just transition to regenerative
Markets, functions and human resources teams were keen
Apprenticeship Network and the Global Alliance for YOUth. Ukraine have access to excellent universities and education
food systems.
to help and together we managed to secure 34 internships
systems. The interns we are interviewing have acquired
across 22 countries in Europe and Latin America, in addition “I am really enjoying my
The Global Alliance for YOUth, co-founded by Nestlé, is a diverse skills and speak multiple languages – advantages
Entrepreneurship
to the existing Nesternship program. To make sure these
business-driven movement of like-minded organizations that help them fit in immediately at Nestlé. The feedback
Driving economic and social time here. I particularly love
placements were attractive to young people with different
passionate about working together to help young people about those who have started is overwhelmingly positive,
progress by equipping young
backgrounds and experience levels, we opened positions that I have the opportunity
around the globe get the necessary skills to thrive in the with their outstanding teamwork and immediate ability to
people with the skills, experience
in Finance and Control, Key Account Management,
world of work, today and tomorrow. connect being noted. to learn so much and to
and mindset to transform ideas
Confectionery, Marketing, Procurement, Supply Chain,
into viable businesses.
develop myself further.”
Project Management and the Digital Transformation team.
We are convinced that by mobilizing the business I think I’m most proud of the solidarity. What started as an
community through the Global Alliance, we can help young idea has become a practical platform to empower young
people on a larger scale and have a bigger impact than we Ukrainians. We chose to offer internships over jobs to
can individually. ensure everyone has the flexibility they need (for example to Solomiia Zagrychuk
Procurement Intern,
return home). And we have no plans to stop our program:
Germany
Global Alliance members offer youth first-job experiences, more interns started in January 2023 and Nestlé will
run educational programs to enhance young people’s skills continue to recruit and place young people for as long as
and support young entrepreneurs. Ukrainian students need the extra support.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 48
Performance Through Nestlé Needs YOU – our initiative in the United involve the participation and support from the respective
States focused on empowering the next generation to thrive governments, the private sector and non-for-profit
We remain on track to help 10 million young people gain
– we partnered with non-profit Girls With Impact to inspire organizations such as UNESCO and the International Labor
access to economic opportunities by 2030. In 2022, we
future female business leaders to pursue their innovative Organization. The event in 2022 was hosted in Mexico in
succeeded in creating 1.73 million opportunities through the
ideas. We awarded 150 scholarships to Girls With Impact’s October and attracted the interest of more than 300 000
Nestlé needs YOUth initiative, taking the cumulative total
Business and Leadership Academy in 2022, and hosted young people.
since announcing our commitment in 2017 to 5.62 million.
a “Big Ideas, Better World” competition for women aged
12-29 to submit their business ideas that could help solve A virtual event run by Nestlé Conecta in the Plata region
At the 2022 United Nations Climate Change Conference,
pressing challenges in the food and beverage industry. (Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay) in October 2022,
known as COP27, in November, Nestlé demonstrated how
The winning participant received funds from Nestlé to put offering digital and innovation skills, attracted 75 000
the youth agenda contributes to the company’s values and
toward her start-up, as well as mentorship from our R+D unique users. In February 2022, Nestlé Brazil in partnership
wider commitments in a workshop on building responsible
Accelerator team in the United States. with the Brazilian Alliance for YOUth and MOVER, a
communications.
movement for racial equity, hosted Nestlé Conecta, an event
Employment and employability aimed at connecting and engaging with young people to
In May 2022, as a member of the Global Alliance for YOUth, 35 million Our approach to introducing young people to skills for provide training and employability opportunities. This event
Nestlé partnered with NielsenIQ and the Global Shapers
thriving in modern workplaces is also progressing. In June attracted more than 40 000 young people.
Community to launch the Global Youth Survey and discuss Training
2022, Nestlé convened the first NestGen YOUth e-Fest,
opportunities have
its initial findings during the World Economic Forum in
a two-day online event in all 13 Africa, Oceania and Asia In China, Nestlé has worked with Tsinghua University
been provided by
Davos, Switzerland. The survey, focusing on post-COVID-19
markets. Some 19 masterclasses were designed to help and Imperial College London to explain and discuss our
the Global Alliance
young people’s pain points, captured the views of nearly
upskill today’s youth for the workplace, with 20 speakers sustainability strategy with thousands of students to help
for YOUth members
2000 people aged between 18 and 29, from 19 countries.
since its launch from Google, Microsoft and TikTok joining representatives give them practical insights. In Ecuador, 2800 young
The survey focused on four areas of action: inclusive jobs,
in 2019 from KitKat, Nescafé and Milo to talk on topics including people received career guidance and vocational training
sustainability, digital access and mental health. The full
brand building and content creation. More than 33 000 as part of Nestlé Ecuador’s ‘dual training’ model, which
survey results are available here.
participants attended, generating social media reach of helps young people to both expand their skills and leverage
7 million with engagement of 234 000 (only the 33 000 employment opportunities.
Agripreneurship
attendees count toward our key performance indicator).
Through our longstanding Agripreneurship Program we
Attendees said the event provided good information about Our brands have also taken these activities to heart, such
have engaged 74 077 agripreneurs, including 25 176 under
career opportunities within Nestlé. as the S. Pellegrino Young Chef Academy. This brings young
Researching together Young people help 30, who are training to become future-fit farmers. In dairy
chefs together with influential members of the gastronomic
drive innovation at our
alone, we have trained 17 438 young farmers through our
with academia R+D Accelerator in Digital events emulate an approach pioneered in Pacific world to help develop skills and knowledge, build networks
Young people are
Lausanne, Switzerland. basic support program (2018- 2021).
mentored and supported Alliance countries – Mexico, Colombia, Chile and Peru. and offer mentorship.
The global academic alliances program supports more in acquiring professional
These virtual and face-to-face youth forums (The Pacific
skills in our Nesternship
than 60 PhD students across the globe. The students that Additionally, our brands continue to bring agripreneurship
internship program. Alliance Youth Summit) are now in their seventh year and In 2018, Nestlé Professional and Worldchefs launched
are currently taking part in the program are made up of into their own sustainability plans. For example, the Nescafé
Worldchefs Academy, a free online training course for
33 different nationalities and are hosted by 41 universities Plan 2030 will continue to include an agripreneurship
aspiring chefs to take a first step toward a culinary career.
in 17 countries worldwide. The program supports students component, continuing and enhancing the activities of the
Over 41 000 students have enrolled since the launch; in
in two ways. One way is by partnering with academia previous decade.
2022, the number of graduates reached 2365.
through research grants, such as the recently renewed
Entrepreneurship
collaboration with the University of Ghana, to strengthen
In 2022, with our partner Worldchefs, we delivered a series
local students’ expertise in science and technology. In August 2022, to consolidate our progress in this area,
of three webinars that were available free of charge to
we launched the Youth Entrepreneurship Platform (YEP)
people interested in the out-of-home industry. Participants
The second way is to provide students with the opportunity – a digital home that groups all our innovation activities
of the webinars have tangible proof of their learning
to build their expertise and work on research projects at and programs in one place (see case study Harnessing
through a digital badge and certificate that they can add
Nestlé R&D facilities. We also offer students the possibility the power of young entrepreneurs). In just over a month,
to their CVs or LinkedIn Profiles. In 2022, over 1000 digital
to focus on developing disruptive food and beverage we had over 11 000 website visitors, with over 5000 young
badges were issued.
innovations and test them in a retail environment in six people registering accounts.
months in one of our 14 Nestlé R+D Accelerators across
As part of the Nestlé needs YOUth initiative, the Nestlé
the world, including in Chile, India and the United States. In 2022, 174 000 learning, training or job opportunities were
Professional YOCUTA (Young Culinary Talents) Program
created for European youth. In the United States, Nespresso
continues to support future chefs by strengthening their
To round things off, Nestlé has launched the Youth has been working with Thrive Scholars, a non-profit,
theoretical and practical culinary skills and preparing
Entrepreneurship Platform (YEP), a new digital platform seeking to develop leaders – particularly from black and
them for a career in foodservice, which is suffering from
for young innovators and entrepreneurs who want to Latin backgrounds. In 2022, 20 scholars were sponsored
a shortage of skilled workers worldwide.
gather knowledge and skills, test an idea or grow their for a six-year program, with 115 employees engaging
businesses (see case study Harnessing the power of with the program (see external viewpoint Inspiring high-
young entrepreneurs). achieving students of color from low-income backgrounds).
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 49
Outlook
Harnessing the
“As student entrepreneurs,
We will continue to advocate for young people at all levels
– from local communities through to governments and
participating in Nestle’s
international organizations.
accelerator program taught
power of young
Looking ahead, we will also continue to promote and us so much. Exposure to
improve our new Youth Entrepreneurship Platform and
this environment has been
accelerate our efforts to bring young farmers together. We
will seek to create engaging, relevant, content to encourage entrepreneurs really beneficial for the
organic growth and widen knowledge about the support we
growth of ourselves and our
can provide entrepreneurial young people.
startup, and we believe that
We will begin to develop a similar Agripreneurship
platforms like YEP will help
Academy to help the next generation of farmers to work
other students and aspiring
in a regenerative way. The academy will address topics
ranging from climate change, agroforestry and soil health entrepreneurs like us access
to animal welfare.
these wonderful opportunities
Young farmer Jessica
Young people are not simply initiatives and discover the wide range of
Ellwood is passionate
Above all, by prioritizing young people in our global to grow and learn.”
help we can offer to bring innovation to life,
about old-style farming
strategic goals and our brands’ individual plans, we can and is already seeing the tomorrow’s workforce. Their whether related to regenerative agriculture,
continue to make a difference in the lives of millions of benefits of regenerative Jessica Schwabach and Siwen Deng
plant-based products, packaging and
farming at her dairy farm innovative ideas can transform Co-founders of Sundial Foods and YEP
young people around the world. in Cumbria, the UK. circularity or affordable nutrition. platform users
the way we work, maximize our
YEP is a one-stop shop to access standalone
impact and accelerate a just initiatives such as our international network of
14 R+D Accelerators, our online internships or
transition to regenerative global
Nesternships, Purina’s Unleashed accelerator
and wider information about the Nestlé needs
food systems.
YOUth initiative. This approach effectively
consolidates the full spectrum of our activities
A free learning tool Young people can attend webinars, access
Against the context of youth unemployment,
in this area to ensure we get the most out of
Access to the site is free. It offers a catalogue personal mentoring and coaching from
which significantly increased during the
budding entrepreneurs rather than engaging
of entrepreneurial case studies, profiles of experienced staff and gain access to early-
pandemic, and the rising average age of
with a single initiative.
young innovators we already support, plus an stage investment, learning from real-life
farmers, it is crucial we demonstrate Nestlé
e-learning academy of educational content examples from well-known brands such as
is the natural home for young entrepreneurs
and news of workshops, digital events, local Nescafé, Gerber and Garden Gourmet.
active in the food space. We want to be
initiatives and training opportunities.
a company with a nurturing atmosphere,
We have big plans for YEP and are building
renowned for transforming good ideas into
a community. After an initial social media
viable businesses that help feed the world and
campaign that generated 48 000 leads, we
protect the planet. YEP – our Youth
Entrepreneurship hired a dedicated community manager to
Platform – was
monitor interactions on the platform and
To simplify that process and harness good a successful
innovation in 2022. provide targeted, interactive content to further
ideas from anywhere, and from anyone
engage people. Early analysis shows that
of any background, we created the Youth
people visit the site for one hour on average.
Entrepreneurship Platform, or YEP. It is a
single, online location where young people
Lessons learned from the way this community
can be inspired by previous entrepreneurial
develops will inform our plans to build a
similar platform, the Agripreneurship Academy,
to harness innovative ideas for shaping the
farming of the future.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 50
Our diverse and
inclusive culture
Background WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP
Target achieved: 30% of our top 200+ senior
We believe that nurturing and promoting a diverse and
executive positions are held by women
inclusive culture makes Nestlé a more attractive and
exciting organization to work for. By advocating for and
embracing inclusion, we are seeking to unleash the full
potential of our workforce. When they can bring their whole
25.6%
selves to work, we find our employees feel more engaged,
in 2020
productive, happier and fulfilled, with a sense of belonging.
27.2%
in 2021
Our aim is to cultivate a diverse and inclusive workforce, 30.2% 30.2%
in 2022
business culture and leadership. We believe this provides 200+ senior
equal opportunities for everyone to contribute, grow and executive are
feel valued and is characterized by an open-minded spirit women
and a profound sense of belonging.
We believe that this approach not only helps our business
better reflect the world at large but that it is a powerful
unifying force that can help us to accelerate a just transition
to regenerative food systems. WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT
Middle and senior management
We recognize that we must navigate the complexity of that are female (%)
varying social and cultural conventions and differing
legislative approaches to diversity and inclusion around
the world. This includes political scenarios that are less
favorable to under-represented groups. We are also 43.8%
in 2021
anxious to counter setbacks widely regarded as having
45.3%
been experienced by under-represented groups during
in 2022
the COVID-19 pandemic. This included challenges in
45.3%
working from home, the need to deal with parenting and
Middle and senior
homeschooling – with gender equality suffering in particular
management
– and people with some disabilities experiencing challenges
are female
in remote working.
Nurturing inclusivity enhances employee
well-being and makes us more productive
and innovative – helping us transform
SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
global food systems.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 51
Approach DIVERSITY AND People with disabilities External viewpoint
INCLUSION When we employ people with disabilities, we aim to
Diversity and inclusion is one of six key areas that
PILLARS AT be attentive to their needs – whether their disability is
govern how we manage our people within Group Human Inspiring high-achieving students of
NESTLÉ visible or invisible. We run Employee Resource Groups
Resources (HR) and Business Services. As such, diversity
focused on people with disabilities and neurodivergence,
and inclusion leadership at Nestlé is embedded in the
Gender balance such as THRIVE, while our NestAbility network aims to color from low-income backgrounds
HR Leadership team, which includes HR Heads of Zone,
create an open culture and dialogue around disability. We
function and business. Diversity and inclusion objectives People with
promote the inclusion of people with disabilities through
are cascaded to their respective markets. Regular updates disabilities
membership of the ILO Global Business and Disability
are provided to the Executive Management Board and
Network and have signed The Valuable 500 commitment to
LGBTQ+ community
the Board of Directors, who review progress. We are
elevate disability inclusion to our leadership agenda.
evolving from group-led initiatives on these topics to
Race and ethnicity
market- and brand-led activity, as diversity and inclusion We can’t correct disparities in corporate diversity alone
LGBTQ+ community
becomes progressively embedded in individual cultures Generations – we depend on partners to acknowledge the ongoing
Nestlé supports the United Nations Standards of Conduct
Steve Stein
and workplaces. We have five diversity and inclusion pillars, problem and partner with us.
for Business on tackling discrimination against LGBTI CEO, Thrive Scholars
which intersect with each other (e.g. young and disabled).
people and is part of the Partnership for Global LGBTI
When companies like Nespresso support us, we vastly
Equality, the only LGBTQ+-focused organization in the
Gender balance
strengthen and expand our academic, mentorship
world where the private sector and civil society sit together
We are striving to increase the proportion of women in Why Nespresso is supporting inclusion and career development resources to students across
as members. Local LGBTQ+ networks in many Nestlé
our top 200+ senior executive posts through our Gender the country.
markets support colleagues by creating a forum for
through Thrive Scholars.
Balance Acceleration Plan, while our Global Parental
conversation. We also collaborate with external groups to
Support Policy extends the rights of caregivers regardless By supporting Thrive Scholars to reach their highest
advocate for civil rights and workplace protections, develop
of gender. We participate in international campaigns such It takes more than good grades and a college degree potential, Nespresso is directly influencing and guiding
our understanding of key issues and create programs that
as International Women’s Day and are proud to have our to secure an amazing job and build an upwardly mobile the diverse leaders of tomorrow. With the preparation our
reflect local contexts.
Participants in a Nestlé
progress externally assessed by the Bloomberg Gender- career. In North America, talented students of color from Scholars receive, they are in the best position to apply for
Malaysia and Singapore
Equality Index. youth program. low-income backgrounds struggle to get into college or internships or full-time employment opportunities that arise
Race and ethnicity
progress onto graduate schools and into the workforce due at the company.
We strive to advance racial and ethnic inclusion. We
to systemic barriers.
work to eliminate unconscious bias and to appoint local
Nespresso isn’t just securing a diverse pipeline of future
employees who represent the communities we serve to
That’s where Thrive Scholars comes in. We help high- talent, but also sending a clear message to our Scholars:
management positions in the countries we operate in.
achieving Black, Latino, and other underrepresented they can challenge the makeup of the workforce and
Nestlé was a founding member of the World Economic
students with academic advising, career coaching and they deserve to work at familiar, aspirational companies
Forum’s Partnering for Racial Justice in Business initiative.
mentorship to help them excel at top colleges and transition regardless of their ethnicity or economic background.
into professions that lead to economic mobility. Nespresso is helping to change the narrative.
Generations
We have five different generations in our global workforce
Over our 20 years, we found that college preparation is vital
and we actively encourage all of them to bring their
and that starting early is the key to our success. We engage
different perspectives and knowledge to work.
Scholars in their junior year of high school with our Summer
“By nurturing Thrive Scholars to be their best selves,
Academy: a six-week intensive program over two summers
In 2021, we launched the Mentoring For All program to
of college-level courses. Throughout our six-year program,
facilitate knowledge sharing between different generations. Nespresso is directly influencing and guiding the
our Scholars receive financial support, social-emotional
By enhancing curiosity and peer-to-peer learning from each
diverse leaders of tomorrow.”
guidance and career development through our Career
other’s experiences, this program aims to increase cross-
Pathways program. Our career coaching helps Scholars
generational engagement and create a stronger sense of
Steve Stein
navigate and leverage opportunities to join the advanced
inclusion and belonging. In our endeavor to support our CEO, Thrive Scholars
workforce and become corporate leaders. Through our
employees in their transition from work to retirement, we
program, Scholars develop the technical skills and essential
designed and piloted the Life Transition Program in 2022,
competencies like computer literacy, writing acumen, data
with employees and champions across eight different
analysis, communication, critical thinking and leadership.
countries. Through this program, we aim to enable a
This is why we play an essential part in enhancing diversity
meaningful and purposeful transition and early preparation
in the workplace.
regardless of age.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 52
We have continually Gender balance LGBTQ+ community
improved the gender
As part of our plan to balance the gender makeup of our In early 2022, Nestlé USA, Nestlé Health Science and
balance of our senior and
middle management in workforce, we are delighted to report that, as of December Nestlé Purina PetCare all received scores of 100 on the
recent years.
31, 2022, 30.2% of our top 200+ senior executive positions Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2022 Corporate
were held by women, up from 27.2% in 2021 and meeting Equality Index. This is the foremost benchmarking
our commitment. The proportion of women occupying survey and report in the United States measuring
middle and senior managerial positions increased to 45.3%, corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ+
up from 43.8% in 2021. workplace equality.
Nestlé has pledged to help accelerate the pace toward During Pride Month, in June 2022, a Nestlé global webcast
equal pay for equal work since 2019. To make sure that covering unconscious bias, support in the workplace and
men and women performing comparable jobs get equal mental health was watched live by 1400 employees, with
pay, we make sure that an annual equal pay review is another 3000 watching a recording afterwards, and reached
conducted for all markets and they remain responsible for a total of 33 000 employees across global and diversity and
addressing actions locally and eliminating the conditions inclusion groups. Within specific markets, our brands are
that may create systemic pay gaps. Our 2022 Global Equal also demonstrating their support for LGBTQ+ communities.
Pay review completed with highly satisfactory results.
No systemic equal pay gap was found within the Group. Race and ethnicity
Nestlé continues to comply with all disclosures on equal For the first time, Nestlé USA began disclosing pay gaps
pay in relevant markets as required by the local legislation based on race, ethnicity and disability as well as gender.
Performance and methodologies specified (e.g. United Kingdom, As a result, Nestlé USA has reported pay equity in under-
France, Switzerland). For the fourth consecutive year, the represented minority employee salaries for the first time
In 2022, our markets began self-assessing their
“Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index” recognized Nestlé for (2021 data, disclosed in 2022).
implementation of diversity and inclusion initiatives,
our transparency in gender reporting.
programs and processes through a digital tool. It builds a
‘maturity’ profile of their activity, from which they can build
We continue to advocate for women in our supply chain. In
an action plan to target key areas for improvement.
less developed countries where women are often expected
to fulfill traditional roles, Nestlé has been empowering
We also initiated a Global Voluntary Self-Identification
women in various ways. For example, thousands of women
Program. This pilot scheme, which ran across four
in Pakistan have been trained in our dairy supply chain
countries representing 12% of our global workforce,
since 2015.
encouraged employees to consent to declared gender, People with disabilities Nespresso’s partnership
with Café Joyeux, which
sexual orientation, race/ethnic identity and disabilities being Our efforts to embed an inclusive culture for people with
In Brazil, we supported 10 women farmers in our supply employs people with
linked to their employee profile. This has the potential to disabilities were recognized in the 2022 Disability Equality disabilities, launched in
chain through Masters degrees in Dairy Administration as
July 2022.
significantly improve our understanding of our diversity Index of the Best Places to Work, an initiative between the
part of Nestlé Brazil’s Força da Moça do Campo initiative
and inclusion performance, for instance by uncovering any American Association of People with Disabilities and non-
in 2022. The course is based on the principles of lean
systemic biases and knowing how diverse we truly are. profit group Disability:IN. It recognized Nestlé USA and
management, which focuses on maximizing efficiency,
The data can help us take more robust and considered Nestlé Purina PetCare with scores of 100%.
to help them more effectively manage the 950 cows and
actions to foster greater inclusion. We are exploring how to
22 000 liters of milk they collectively produce daily. Ten
extend the pilot to other countries, given the sensitivity and In October 2022, Nestlé in Spain and Fundación Universia
more women have been identified for 2023.
legislation related to collecting, storing and using personal launched the second iteration of the IN-Tech program,
data in different jurisdictions. aimed at university students with disabilities, to help them
Nespresso has developed a field-tested gender analysis
develop IT skills and gain workplace experience.
tool to help identify the root causes of gender inequality
At the end of 2022, 90.8% of our 283 000 employees had
in coffee farming. The tool is informed by rigorous data
completed our sexual harassment training. In Brazil, we launched a limited edition range of biscuits:
collection and in-depth gender analysis of men and women
Nestlé Passatempo Libras. It comes with the National
in farming households. The insights are used to target
A critical factor in building a more inclusive workplace Deaf Alphabet on biscuits, helping families to learn Libras
actions – so that women are given access to the resources
is understanding that different social categorizations do (Brazilian sign language) while having fun and eating. We
they need and are empowered to be part of the decision-
not exist in isolation but can overlap with each other. also launched a website with additional Libras content.
making process. To advance industry-wide change, the tool
Intersectionality recognizes, for example, that people can
has been made publicly available.
be part of the LGBTQ+ community and have a disability, or In France, Nespresso announced a partnership with Café
be a single parent and from an ethnic minority background. Joyeux, which employs people with disabilities in Paris.
One example is our work to understand how well we are A portion of proceeds from a specially developed blend
supporting young people with disabilities through our of coffee will go to the café, helping it sustain 40 jobs for
Nestlé employees celebrate
Nestlé needs YOUth initiative. one year. at Brighton Pride in the UK.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 53
Outlook Nestlé supports the Girls
Creative Academy in Australia,
which helps educate young
Building a culture of inclusion where everybody feels they
First Nations women.
belong will always be a moving target as society evolves,
reacts and responds to wider change. We will always
encourage employees to stay vocal about emerging first steps
challenges to inclusion and we remain open to new
opportunities to celebrate diversity.
In 2023, we will launch guidelines for brands to help
them speak more inclusively in their marketing and
communications. This will help our market teams to create
advertising and other promotional activities that reflect How we are helping First Tuck In! Television and Radio School graduates, with
local contexts and align with our wider goals on diversity Against this backdrop, and after two years work experience also going to graduates from
and inclusion. Nations content creators of behind-the-scenes preparation, the aptly our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Youth
named Tuck In! program began in July 2022. Development Program (AYDP).
kickstart their careers
From 2023, Nespresso AAA Sustainable Quality™ Program
The initiative brings together established First
Gender Equality Index will measure progress against ten Seeing is believing
in Australia. Nations chefs with would-be content creators
KPIs in three categories. These tools will guide Nespresso’s to develop recipes and video content that The resulting content was communicated
interventions in the various AAA countries. In line with celebrates the combination of bush foods and across Nestlé’s network of news and food
Nestlé Oceania has recently launched an
Nespresso’s gender equality strategy, it will strive to Nestlé products. websites and social media channels –
initiative to help aspiring First Nations –
increase the number of female agronomists to 40% by celebrating Aboriginal culture through native
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples –
2025 and 50% by 2030. Having achieved our commitment For the first project, two brands - Nescafé ingredients, encouraging home cooks to try
content creators to choose their career path.
to increase the percentage of women in our top 200+ Blend 43 and Nestlé Sweetened Condensed bush foods and supporting the visibility and
executive positions to 30%, we will continue our efforts to A participant in Milk – partnered with Gamilaraay chef Keith development of First Nations creatives. First Nations Australians
our youth program
The idea to link the world of content creation,
aim for parity in all management positions. in Bangladesh. Munro from a Sydney-based restaurant First Nations are the first peoples of Australia.
production and media with some of Australia’s
to create recipes including macadamia The aim is that the program will become an And while they represent 3.2% of the resident
biggest brands and media companies was
amaretti biscuits and coffee, wattleseed and annual initiative, giving ongoing opportunities population, these indigenous communities
born in 2020, when Nestlé Australia struggled
banana loaf. in line with Nestlé’s vision to unlock the power often suffer disproportionate social and
to find a crew of First Nations videographers,
of food to enhance the quality of life for all in economic disadvantages.
stylists and producers to create content
The video content – produced with support of a just, equitable and unified future.
for a National Aboriginal and Islander Day
Nestlé has long supported First Peoples as the
professional media and creative support – was
Observance Committee Week campaign.
traditional owners of the lands where we live
brought to life by selected Australian Film,
and work and we are committed to deepening
It quickly became apparent that there was a
understanding of the richness and diversity
distinct under-representation of First Nations
of their culture and values both inside and
creatives in this space, which prompted Nestlé
outside the company.
Australia to consider how they could foster
better opportunities for emerging talent to
Nestlé has joined a network of over 1100
break into the industry.
corporate, government and not-for-
profit organizations that have made a
formal commitment to reconciliation and
strengthening relationships with First Peoples
through a Reconciliation Action Plan, where
the AYDP remains the flagship program.
In 2010, Nestlé launched its Aboriginal and
Video: Torres Strait Islander Youth Development
Tuck in!
Program, which recognizes the importance
of educating women in creating resilient
communities. In partnership with First Nations
Nestlé is bringing
education program Girls Academy, we have
together young
creatives and already supported the education of over 11 000
established First Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander girls.
Nations chefs in its
Tuck in! program
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 54
An employer
of choice
Background 100% RECORDABLE ILLNESS
0.66 Recordable illness rate
While the severity of COVID-19 lessened in 2022, it Rollout of
per million hours worked
continued to contribute to a worldwide talent shortage. Global Parental
Other changes are also emerging. The immediate legacy Support policy
0.71
in all markets
of the shift to more flexible work arrangements has been 0.66
a change in employee expectations of working conditions.
Better work-life balance and alignment between personal
and employer values, including sustainability, have an even
greater bearing on people’s choice of job and employer.
This pandemic-related evolution is redrawing traditional
concepts relating to jobs and careers. Employees are
rethinking their priorities and approaching the employment
market with more freedom. Notably, they are willing to
change jobs more frequently to find the work-life balance
that is best for their personal situation.
100% 2021 2022
This realignment is forcing employers to rethink practices
Countries where
and strategies. The result is a ‘war for talent’. There is now a RECORDABLE INJURY
policy against
clear focus on a hybrid approach to working and on greater 1.21 Recordable injury rate
Discrimination,
personalization of all parts of the recruitment process and per million hours worked
violence and
employment. At Nestlé, we have responded to this shift.
harrassment is
1.37*
rolled out
1.28
1.21
Approach
Talent management
We strive to attract, hire, develop and retain the right
candidates to be a ‘force for good’. Our talent acquisition
and retention approach is outlined in our People
Strategy 2025, which is focused on building a future-
ready workforce, developing leadership that is inspiring,
disruptive and inclusive, and fostering a culture that is
agile and winning. This approach is aligned to our business
2020 2021 2022
strategy, Corporate Business Principles and our purpose
* Last year’s recordable incident rate has been restated to 1.37 (from 1.33),
and values.
following recategorization of incidents at a later date.
Our people are at the heart of our SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
We encourage our people to find new and exciting
opportunities within the company. We promote global
commitment to be a ‘force for good’.
mobility and work with our employees to fulfill their needs
Their mental, physical and social in terms of flexibility, training, growth and reward.
well-being is a priority, as is creating
All our employees are empowered to develop their
own careers, supported by their line managers. Our
a culture in which they can thrive.
SuccessFactors online system provides a tool and resource
for both managers and employees to find guidance and to
track this process.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 55
Employee health and well-being Safety Nestlé viewpoint “The mini program offers access to a library of articles that
Employee health is fundamental for building sustainable We have made the safety of our people one of our core help all local employees to understand and stay up to date
organizations, driving business performance and principles. We are committed and determined to prevent on all things sustainable at Nestlé.
Building the
demonstrating shareholder value. The Nestlé Roadmap serious accidents by continually eliminating risks and
for Employee Health serves as a reference for our markets by enabling our employees and contractors to adopt “I use it to keep a record of my carbon reduction activities,
when addressing employee health. Under each pillar, we safe behaviors. (Nes)future such as how I travel (whether I cycle or take the subway
detail key milestones and deliverables. over the car), how much I recycle, what food I eat and even
Our zero-harm vision puts people at the center of whether my cutlery is reusable. The mini program calculates
NESTLE ROADMAP FOR EMPLOYEE everything we do. We aim to create a harm-free work how much carbon I’ve saved and I can immediately see the
HEALTH 2021-2023 environment with world-class safety performance, to have impact of my small actions.
Our approach to our people is realized a positive impact on people’s well-being and to ensure all
through six key areas: Nestlé employees have a risk anticipation mindset. At the Competition and reward
same time, we encourage strategic partnerships to help us “Even better, we’re recognized for participation, team
1. Talent management in achieving our vision. spirit and consistency. The more days we’re active the
Shiyu LV
Attracting, developing and retaining talent while preparing Legal Counsel higher we score, receiving rankings for both individual and
our workforce for the needs of our future business. We strive to ensure that the highest safety standards are business unit performance. If we make it to the top of the
applied to all our sites, operations and projects, where our leaderboard, we’re rewarded with either coupons for the
2. Diversity and inclusion focus is on our highest risks. We expect life-saving rules Nestlé online supermarket or eco-products from Nespresso.
Our team in China embraces
Building a better business that is inclusive and equal for to prevent fatal and serious injuries to be applied with
genders, people with disabilities, LGBTQ+ communities and zero tolerance. We empower employees to stop work and “Nesfuture helps me build good habits in the workplace
greener choices.
all races and ethnicities. speak up if they recognize a situation as unsafe. We also and at home, where I explain the benefits of a low-carbon
use digital innovation and behavioral science to contribute lifestyle to my daughter.
“Are you wondering how you can act more sustainably
3. Employee health, well-being and safety to the elimination of serious accidents and to help us
each day? It’s a question I’ve often asked myself. Nestlé is
Inspiring and empowering our people to choose a healthier understand what drives at-risk behaviors and address “No more trying to remember small changes I make day to
helping employees in the Greater China Zone answer by
future for themselves, their families and our business. To root causes. day. Using the mini program means I can make a difference
using an app-based mini program.
work only when all required safety measures are in place, all the time. The combination of incentive, repeated action
speak when anything appears unsafe and create a safe and Employee relations and engagement and fun creates long-term positive change.”
healthy working environment. We are committed to treating employees with mutual
“Known as Nesfuture, the mini program is designed to
help inspire and empower all Nestlé employees to integrate
trust and fairness. We recognize the importance of
sustainable activities into our daily lives. The idea came
4. Employee relations and engagement collaborating with our employees and their representatives
from our teams. It was launched internally on April 22,
Supporting Nestlé in its goal to be a company where and organizations, as well as external labor stakeholders.
2022 – Earth Day.
employees are treated with mutual trust and fairness, We work closely together with the International Union of
and where they feel engaged with our purpose, values Food Workers to ensure that the needs of our workforce
and principles. are addressed. Our regular and deep interactions ensure
alignment and comprehensive inputs when we review our
5. Organizational design and change management policies and guidance documents.
“83% of around
Based on our Corporate Business Principles, our culture is
supported by regularly updated policies and communicated Compensation and benefits 20 000 employees in
through our training. We ensure that our employees are rewarded and
the Greater China Zone
recognized for their contributions with competitive pay
6. Compensation and benefits Participants and benefits. Our Nestlé Total Rewards Policy provides a registered for the App
Providing employees with fair and competitive salaries and on our youth framework within which our teams can create programs
by 2022.”
program in
benefits and conducting regular performance reviews. Hungary. that attract, motivate and retain talent. We do this to build
a performance culture, to engage our workforce and to
contribute toward a positive employee experience.
Organizational design and change management
We manage our purpose and values at a global level,
providing our markets with the support they need to ensure
a consistent culture throughout the company.
We recognize that the world changes fast, so we constantly
evaluate the external environment and adapt when
Screenshots of our
necessary. And we always take local legislation, cultural and
Nesfuture employee
religious practices into account. sustainability app in China.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 56
Performance 156 600 Employee engagement, health and well-being The number of employees reached through global employee
In 2022, we continued to evolve and expand our employee health promotion communication campaigns such as
Talent management Employees
engagement initiatives and health and well-being #HealthyLives and Mental Health Week in 2022 was 156 600.
Adaptability is enshrined in our approach to talent reached through
programs. Importantly, we launched new domestic violence
recruitment and retention, and is a key tenet of our People health promotion
victims guidance across the company (see the Agents of In addition, we continued to work with industry bodies,
activities in 2022
Strategy 2025 plan. We constantly evolve our focus to
change case study). including with the Consumer Goods Forum, where we
(130 063 in 2021).
reflect the changing talent acquisition landscape. We
are a member of the Employee Health and Well-being
have established a number of new working practices
9.3 To encourage healthy living among our employees, we working group.
and approaches at a local and regional level, to focus the
ran two global communication campaigns in 2022 that
working environment in our factories on employee well-
Average number of addressed our major health risks. These reinforced the In 2022, our recordable illness rate per million hours worked
being. For office-based workers, we have formalized a
hours of technical or importance of physical activity, active breaks, healthy eating was 0.66. There were no recordable fatalities from illnesses
hybrid flexible working policy in all markets. Each market vocational training
and mental health. and we unfortunately recorded 20 irreversible illnesses.
can adapt the policy in line with local conditions. provided to workers
in the company’s
As part of the campaigns, we ensured the availability of Safety
In a challenging employment environment, we were operations
healthy food at Nestlé canteens. In 2022, 94.6% of our We deeply regret that six people lost their lives while
(15.8 in 2021)
recognized as one of the World’s Best Workplaces by Great
canteens offered a healthy meal (94.4% in 2021) and 54.5% working for us in 2022 (three in 2021). Four were Nestlé
Place to Work.
of our markets provided a nap room or equivalent space employees and two were employed by a contractor. Four
for resting. fatalities involved road traffic accidents, one occurred on
In 2022, we also focused on communicating personal 56.3%
a construction site and one during production operations.
development opportunities at Nestlé, in line with our plan Total employees More broadly, the #HealthyLives program includes guidance All fatal accidents are investigated by an independent
to place more emphasis on fostering the skills we need to covered by
collective bargaining and interactive exercises across four dimensions: physical investigation team to establish the root causes. We take
grow as a business. This strategy was rolled out around the
agreements activity, sleep, nutrition and mental health, and is available action to prevent recurrence and share the lessons learned
world, with campaigns tailored to individual markets. (54.4% in 2021)
in 16 languages. So far, 33 136 employees have participated across the company.
with 509 974 video views.
For example, in the United States, we launched a video-
In 2022, 64.6% of our sites had zero recordable injuries and
led campaign promoting the benefits that we offer, while
We also continued to develop our Pleaz global digital our Group recordable injury rate per million hours worked
in China, we introduced the Nesfuture app-based mini
platform. The platform provides easy access to active was 1.21, an 11% reduction compared with 2021. However,
program to help our employees track their personal
breaks. In Pleaz, employees can find guided exercises from there were still 22 serious injuries in 2022 (13 in 2021). We
sustainability performance. This includes their daily
stretching to mindfulness that help unwind and renew their believe that the occurrence of any incident is unacceptable
greenhouse gas emissions (see Nestlé viewpoint Building
energy in a quick active break. Since the launch of Pleaz and we believe that by executing our strategy, we will
the (Nes)future).
in July 2021, we had 60 452 activations in the platform, achieve significant improvements in our safety performance
underlining a high level of interest from our employees. in line with our zero-harm vision.
Our people by type of employment
Covers Nestlé employees registered in the human resources
The Nestlé My Health Numbers program enables us Sustainability capability building
system (approximately 96% of all employees). Each data
to measure the overall health risks of our employee In Europe, we engage employees through various online
point correct at the time the snapshot was taken.
population, helping us to better understand health profiles training courses on sustainability. Also, a lot of hands-on
Innovations In 2022, we were
recognized as one and the impact of health on productivity and to build farm visits and educational activities bring sustainability
of the world’s best
In 2022, we continued to pilot the use of artificial Permanent Temporary strategic, targeted and evidence-based interventions. spirit within our teams.
workplaces by Great
intelligence (AI) in our employee skills development and Place to Work. Total number of employees Female 94 072 8335 The program was available to 233 385 employees at
training processes. by employment contract the end of December 2022 (227 640 in 2021) and based Compensation and benefits
(by gender) Male 147 310 7883
on the cumulative data, 108 830 Nestlé employees so We have continued to work toward our commitment to roll
During the year, we expanded the coverage of our AI-based Total number of employees Asia, Oceania and 55 034 3868 far have participated in the global program (49 687 in out our Global Parental Support Policy across all markets,
by employment contract Australia
talent marketplace resource to 13 new Nestlé markets. 2021). The most prominent health risks continue to be with 100% markets covered by the end of 2022. We can
The tool matches people’s skills with project teams they Europe, Middle East 76 618 7152 stress, unhealthy eating, lack of physical activity, weight also report that all Nestlé employees are covered by
and North Africa
can join. It helps to increase efficiency, foster mobility and management and poor-quality sleep. statutory or, when appropriate, sponsored insurance and
Greater China 19 366 276
develop competencies that support company growth. Talent post employment provisions.
marketplace was first launched in the United States in 2020 Latin America 55 125 4512 We continued our series of HealthTalks webinars, with 4066
and will be rolled out in more markets in 2023. views in 2022 (14 480 in 2021). They covered the topics of
North America 35 267 412
long COVID-19 and eating good food for a better mood.
Full time Part time
Total number of employees Female 95 991 6416
by employment type
(by gender) Male 152 629 2564
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 57
Outlook In tandem with the launch, the HR team
Agents
in Argentina chose November 25, the
“Addressing the issue head on
In 2023, we aim to keep building our personal and career
International Day for the Elimination of
development resources. We will expand our use of AI to
is a win-win for employees and Violence against Women, to share a
develop and train our employees, rolling out key tools in
podcast addressing domestic violence with
for Nestlé.”
more markets around the globe. of change
employees. During the broadcast, Belén Corti,
Nestlé Medical Specialist and community
Belén Corti
Our employee relations teams will be instrumental in
Nestlé Medical Specialist psychologist, talked about different types
implementing human rights salient issue action plans
of abuse – mental, physical, economic and
that relate to our own workforce. These are focused on
sexual – and gave example situations in a
freedom of association and collective bargaining, health
family environment or in a current or past
and safety at work, living income and living wage, forced
relationship. Most importantly they explained
labor and responsible recruitment, and gender equity, non- The importance of our workplace, impacting performance, leading to
how and where to get help.
discrimination and non-harassment. absenteeism and disrupting careers.
new Domestic Violence
“One of the biggest challenges in addressing
Within our employee health and wellness agenda, we will At Nestlé, the health and well-being of every
domestic violence in the workplace is getting
Victims Guidance.
continue to work through our roadmap toward our 2023 employee is our priority. We’re proud of the
employees to recognize the value of speaking
goals. Going forward, we intend to expand well-being to progress we have made to empower women,
up,” Gonzalo Ramos explains. “If we can
include additional focus areas (such as those relating to In June 2022, thousands of people marched and we’re determined to maintain the pace of
demonstrate that we are here to support
financial, social and career considerations), in addition to against gender violence and femicide in change by being open about difficult subjects
employees and have a team of specialists
the existing physical and mental well-being pillars. We Buenos Aires as part of a movement in its and tackling domestic abuse head on. The
on standby to provide confidential and
plan to update our Global Parental Support Policy and, by seventh year called Ni Una Menos, or “Not workplace can be a sanctuary for those who
constructive advice, we can provide employees
the end of 2023, expect every market to have an employee One Woman Less.” Protesters sang loudly, might otherwise suffer in silence.
with credible solutions.”
relations strategy in place. beat drums and lit pink candles, illuminating
the Argentine parliament to remember Following the global guidance and to
The podcast was the first in a planned series
We will also continue to strengthen our safety culture in Our flexible victims in a country where an average of one strengthen our efforts, we launched our
of events to help bring the new policy to life.
approach to
the context of our zero-harm ambition, placing increased femicide is recorded every 35 hours, and Guidance for Providing Support for Employee
employment means From 2023, the HR team – working closely
focus on road safety, life-saving rules and impactful safety that we allow 81% of those killed are classified as victims of Victims of Domestic Violence or Abuse Policy Empowering people to speak up
with NGOs – will travel to each Nestlé location
our employees
systems, and we will further develop the Nestlé Global domestic violence. in November, in the Plata Region of Argentina, “The launch of clear guidelines is a critical step
to work remotely in the region to talk to employees in a bid
Women in Safety Network. when possible. Paraguay and Uruguay. The guidance is being toward empowering people in our region,”
to break down the taboo surrounding the
This demonstration was a colorful and rolled out globally and provides direction for says Gonzalo Ramos, Human Resources
issue. They will also run several programs to
vibrant show of solidarity for a sensitive markets to support employees experiencing Business Partner and Employee Relations
train leaders and reinforce the message that
issue, one which is not always addressed in or surviving domestic violence. It also aims to Manager in Argentina. “Statistics here show
violence and abuse should never be tolerated
public, let alone in the workplace. Very often, raise awareness among employees, remove domestic violence incidents are increasing year
at home or in the workplace.
domestic abuse is seen as a private matter, fears of stigmatization at work for victims and on year. And while 78% of the affected people
where victims go unheard and uncared for. provide guidance to HR Business Partners and are women and girls, anyone can be affected,
And while the threat looms largest in the People Managers when supporting people in regardless of gender, age, race, sexual
home, the risks can quickly reach into the these situations. orientation or faith.”
Thousands marched A podcast discussing the
against gender violence topic of domestic violence
in Argentina in 2022. Our was the first in a series
Domestic Violence Victims of events to promote the
Guidance aims to improve new guidelines.
support for employee
victims in the country.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 58
T he foundations of
ethical business
Background Approach SDG CONTRIBUTIONS
To earn the trust of stakeholders, organizations are We conduct business in an ethical and principles-based
expected to operate with high standards of integrity and manner, even in the absence of applicable regulatory
business ethics. requirements. We take a coordinated, holistic and
risk-based approach to monitoring our conduct against
In order to meet such expectations, we ensure that the regulatory requirements, societal expectations and
company promotes open and transparent communication our internal standards. Our commitment to integrity,
and interaction. We also ensure the continuous evolution fairness and authenticity are enshrined in our company’s
of a Speak Up culture, where people and a healthy working purpose and values.
environment will always be protected.
Our Corporate Business Principles are mandatory for all
Earning trust is crucial – the trust of customers, consumers, employees and are supported by our Code of Business
investors, employees, governments and all other Conduct and other policies. In particular, the Code specifies
stakeholders is fundamental to succeeding as a business certain non-negotiable minimum standards in key areas
over the long term. of employee behavior, including integrity, compliance with
laws, conflicts of interests, antitrust and fair dealing, bribery,
Nestlé values this trust above all else. It is the basic corruption (UN Global Compact Principle 10), discrimination
foundation on which our business is built. We work to and harassment, and accurate reporting and accounting.
deserve this trust and to safeguard our reputation by
behaving ethically, by enabling people to speak up when We integrate these policies and standards into our business
concerns arise and by managing data responsibly and with planning, activities, operations, performance reviews and
transparency. In addition, the regulatory environment has auditing. Where our own principles and policies differ from
continued to become more rigorous and to touch more local legislation, the higher standard applies.
deeply on the need for companies to conduct sustainable
businesses and operations. Business ethics and compliance
Our comprehensive Compliance Program supports the
continuous development and implementation of our
Corporate Business Principles based on ethics and integrity.
It empowers our employees and managers to do the right
thing for the right reason. The program supports our
work related to environmental and social matters and is
a foundation for making Nestlé a force for good.
We continue working to earn trust as
Managing data responsibly and ethically
an ethical and sustainable business.
Our commitment to protecting personal data and privacy
is reflected in our mandatory Global Privacy Program,
Trust in Nestlé is fundamental to our
our Data Ethics Framework and our Corporate Business
culture and to the value chain evolution Principles. We are transparent about how we process
people’s data and provide meaningful control over how
we are leading.
personal data is collected and used. We avoid using data
and technology in ways that are unethical or could lead
to discrimination and exploitation or cause harm.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 59
Using technology to drive sustainable OUR 4 COMPLIANCE PROGRAM PILLARS External viewpoint The benefit of benchmarking
supply chains Companies can use our benchmarks to assess progress
As we build closer relationships and create greater 1. Compliance governance and culture against their peers and use our methodologies as
Race to
transparency throughout our supply chains, technology Our strong culture of business ethics is led and driven by guidance for what science and society expect. As soon
and data have a huge role to play. senior management. We are determined to ensure that our as a benchmark is made public, it immediately shows
policies, standards and procedures, supported by robust the top performance and provides a common global language for
We use technology to track where our raw materials are governance and processes, enable us to conduct business talking about sustainable business practices. How did we
sourced from, ensuring greater traceability. We also use in an ethical and principles-based manner, to fulfill our perform? What can we do to get better?
it to manage the vast amount of information that this business requirements and to meet societal evolution and
creates. This data is used to help drive supply chain expectations, while reinforcing a Speak Up culture. Our Theory of Change is simple: by comparing one
improvements and evaluate the responsible measures company to another in a public way in front of investors,
applied at each stage. 2. Communication and training: dissemination of customers, employees, NGOs, regulators, trade
processes and tools associations and other stakeholders, we can spotlight
Technology is integral to many of our initiatives, including We run yearly communication campaigns to share and Gerbrand Haverkamp the best and worst performers. We can recognize the
Executive Director, World
our income accelerator program that facilitates direct reinforce ethics and compliance guidance, and to share companies that lead and hold those that lag behind to
Benchmarking Alliance
payments to farmers, among other benefits. We make information on the evolution of our compliance culture, account, ultimately encouraging both to improve. Our aim
sure to keep data safe to respect farmer and supplier principles and values. Training materials and tools are is that businesses will fulfil their responsibility in helping to
privacy. We use data from satellite monitoring to evaluate continually developed and implemented to support and transform the system for both people and the planet.
The importance of transparency in
forest areas at risk, a strategy that is aimed at preventing monitor this process.
deforestation before it happens. In the long run, greater transparency and accountability
corporate reporting.
3. Monitoring and reporting for corporate reporting allows investors to influence the
Altogether, this use of technology helps us in our Our global CARE social audit program was started in 2005 companies they invest in, helps governments to develop
sustainability efforts throughout our supply chains. and is aimed at verifying that all employees and Nestlé- The private sector has a critical role to play in achieving better policies, drives civil society to direct public support
operated sites comply with local legislation, our Corporate the SDGs. Companies that robustly measure, manage and partnership efforts and enables individuals to decide
Business Principles and our Code of Business Conduct. and report their impacts help us move toward a more where to spend their money or where they’d like to work.
External auditors assess compliance with our Corporate sustainable future for everyone. But doing this is easier In other words, it creates a marketplace for companies to
Business Principles against seven pillars: conditions of work said than done. How do we incentivize and accelerate make a real difference.
and employment, business integrity, safety and health, the biggest players in the private sector to get on board?
environmental sustainability, security, local communities How do we move from simple statements of intent to
#2
and labor accommodation. In addition, our Human Rights changes in corporate behavior?
Framework and Roadmap provides a comprehensive
Nestlé ranks #2 of 350 companies in
approach for assessing and developing preventive and One way is by increasing levels of transparency and
the World Benchmarking Alliance’s
corrective measures to respect human rights in our accountability. In an ideal world, every company would
Food and Agriculture Benchmark
business relations with third parties. publicly commit to achieving science-based targets, they A coffee tree nursery
with new coffee varieties.
would produce all the relevant data internally to track
Transparency starts at
See Nestlé’s full World Benchmarking
4. Closing gaps progress, and then publish this data for stakeholders the very beginning of
Alliance scorecard here. the supply chain.
We carry out continuous risk assessments to define the who could help drive progress, and shareholders who
priorities and focus areas of our Compliance Program. We could make better decisions on how and where to invest.
ensure that ethical discussions, consequence management However, without a universal governing body or framework,
and action plans are duly executed. companies often fall short of this ideal.
In all areas: automation of systems and processes By benchmarking companies, you can create a kind of
The execution of our Compliance Program is supported league table on SDG impact. You tap into a company’s
by the continuous deployment and improvement of digital competitive spirit and trigger a race to the top. At the World
tools, which provide effective and actionable monitoring Benchmarking Alliance, we use publicly available data,
and reporting. company questionnaires and reliable third-party sources
to rank companies from first to last. We focus on the
companies that can have the biggest impact, offering them
a scorecard with suggestions on how to improve. All the
rankings are made available for free.
We have been using
technology to improve
sustainability in Côte
d’Ivoire since 2011.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 60
We published an updated Speak Up guideline in all Compliance and Corporate Business All our operational sites are subject to a business integrity
markets. The guideline covers recommendations and Principles training review through the CARE Program within the three-year
requirements on the handling, review and investigation of To help strengthen our compliance culture, we continue CARE cycle, which reviews and validates bribery and
all non-compliance allegations. It also provides direction promoting the global mandatory e-learning sessions, corruption prevention and training.
on the execution of our non-retaliation commitment to all delivering 817 312 modules in 2022 (1.2 million in 2021,
allegations raised in good faith. 300 000 in 2020). Much of the training is related to our CARE audits
Corporate Business Principles. 2020 2021 2022
Non-compliance concerns raised through
Locations covered by CARE audits 300 379 389
Speak Up by category Employees are required to complete a set of 11 mandatory
CARE audits carried out 150 247 264
e-learning sessions.
CARE audits improvement opportunities identified 274 333 511
Breakdown categories Messages Messages
CARE audits gaps closed 253 161 283
for Speak Up messages received substantiated CARE audits
The number of CARE audits continued to register a positive
Abuse of power and/or mobbing/bullying 743 222
evolution in 2022, at 264 (247 in 2021). This trend reflects a
Unfair treatment 368 26 Monitoring and reporting
return to a full regularity in performing CARE audits as the
We are constantly evolving our compliance monitoring
Labor practice 272 69 impact of COVID-19 becomes less severe.
and reporting. In 2022, we conducted a quality review of
Harassment (excluding sexual harassment) 168 52
consequence management for substantiated Speak Up
Our CARE reviews have a broad scope. Their content
Fraud (misappropriation or misconduct on 128 35 non-compliance concerns, using improved trend analysis
is based on the SMETA social auditing methodology
accounting/financial statement)
data. We have also enhanced our current conflict-of-
and enriched with requirements specific to Nestlé. The
Safety and health 122 21 interest declaration process. Data quality and automation
Danish Institute of Human Rights also provided input on
initiatives continue to be our key priorities. By doing
Violation of laws/regulations 120 27 the program. The wide range of topics include health
Employees are required to this, we ensure visibility and enable better business and
and safety and working conditions, such as labor
Gifts, families and relatives, conflicts of interest 91 22 take compliance training
management decisions.
every year. accommodation for on-site workers.
Bribery and corruption 88 22*
Performance We empower our
employees to raise any Data protection and privacy
Violence and discrimination 86 16
compliance concerns.
Speak Up: a global non-compliance concern In 2022, we launched our Salient Issue Action Plan on
reporting channel Sexual harassment 81 36 Data Protection and Privacy. It reflects our commitment
Speak Up is our global platform for reporting non- Confidential information, Privacy Policy (data 65 8 to privacy and the rights of the individual in relation
compliance concerns, available for all Nestlé’s employees privacy, trade secrets, intellectual property) to digitalization.
and other stakeholders. It is independently operated Third-party compliance 54 8
by a third party to ensure anonymity when requested. Our plan is designed to ensure that we operate to high
Seeking compliance advice 43 5
The system also complies with key regulations. It is standards and respond to the growing trend for stronger
complemented by the case management system, which is MANCOM members related 27 6 data protection and privacy laws. We are also responding
operated by our teams in the markets and records all cases to the expectations of consumers, investors, customers and
Human rights (child labor, forced labor and 16 0
reported through Speak Up. This helps to analyze relevant modern slavery risks) regulators on how data is used by corporations.
anonymized key performance indicators, trends and
Environmental impact 14 2
statistics on an ongoing basis. The plan is based on our Privacy Program, with tools such
Trade sanctions 12 0
as maturity self-assessments, privacy impact assessments,
Every allegation reported through Speak Up is professionally Antitrust and fair dealing 9 0 vendor privacy risk assessments and internal and external
and confidentially handled. In 2022, we received 2516 audits used to mitigate risk and report on performance.
* Messages substantiated Non-compliance with WHO Code 5 1
messages on non-compliance allegations and compliance- related to kickbacks
and did not involve Executive Board member/senior managers 4 0
related questions. Of the cases investigated, 578 messages The number of data breaches notified to the relevant
government officials. in Switzerland
were substantiated. As a consequence of substantiated authorities and affected individuals was eight in 2022. Each
cases, 154 employees had to leave the company and 11 reported breach is counted once, regardless of the number
Speak Up cases
service providers’ contracts were terminated. of people affected. Also in 2022, we continued to train
Total cases through Speak Up
employees on data ethics and how to manage data legally
Rising awareness of Speak Up led to an increase in the Total cases substantiated Total cases closed and responsibly through an iLearn module titled Data
volume of messages received in 2022. Even though the 532 2721 Ethics at Nestlé, as well as through our Corporate Business
2020
number of substantiated cases remained at similar levels to Total non-compliance concerns raised: 3305 Principles e-learning.
those of 2021, the total number of employees who had to
580 1944
leave the company and number of service providers whose 2021
Total non-compliance concerns raised: 2475
contracts were terminated increased, which clearly shows
that compliance with our policies and standards, as well as 578 1 758
2022
with applicable laws and regulations, is non-negotiable. Total non-compliance concerns raised: 2516
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 61
Molbile technology allows
us to make payments from Ethical behavior
our income accelerator
program directly to farmers
and their spouses.
is rooted in respect
Outlook Our Speak Up culture. We believe that the robust system and “Our commitment to full confidentiality,
consistent communications are proving
Looking ahead, we will continue applying and developing protection and non-retaliation on
a potent mix. Nestlé is sending a strong
our commitments to fairness and authenticity, enabling We promote an inspiring, innovative,
message and consequently having a the treatment of all noncompliance
our employees and managers to do the right thing for transparent and open work environment,
local impact through its actions: setting
the right reason, while protecting and strengthening where each employee is respected, has the allegations made in good faith is
high standards for its employees and
Nestlé’s reputation. liberty to engage, create and contribute, essential to ensuring trust in our
external stakeholders, creating a robust
always with the ability to speak up.
framework against which to measure
organization and encourages others
Our mandatory compliance training and relevant Therefore, everyone in the organization is
behavior and, importantly, taking decisive
communication campaigns will continue to help strengthen encouraged to speak openly on any matter. to speak up.”
consequence management decisions and
our ethical business culture. We continue to evolve and Each employee is free to discuss any matter
improvement actions.
enhance the Speak Up program and its case management with his or her line manager and, in order
Technology-driven transparency system, with the support from internal teams and the to ensure the continuous evolution of such
All of this is fundamental to remaining true to
relevant service provider. Based on the Human Rights work environments, can approach Human Flavio de Souza
Our work with partners to test and deploy technology our values, which are based on respect and
Nestlé Chief Compliance Officer
Framework and Roadmap, we have issued specific Resources, Compliance or access our Speak
in our upstream supply chains continued in 2022. ultimately drive our success.
action plans for our 10 salient issues. Up with full confidentiality.
In Côte d’Ivoire, we began using mobile payment
An annual communication campaign
technology as part of the Nestlé Cocoa Plan’s income
In 2022, we launched our annual employee
accelerator program. The technology allowed us to pay
communication campaign to reinforce the
premiums as part of the plan directly to the farmers and
Speak Up culture and share the previous
their spouses. A notable benefit of this technology is
year’s results. The campaign disclosed the
that we have a high degree of confidence that the entire
items reported through the channel in 2021
incentive reaches the household promptly and that all
and candidly stated that 133 employees
these transactions are completely traceable.
had to leave the company and six service
provider contracts had been terminated as a
For many of the rural farmers, this was the first banking
consequence of the substantiated cases.
facility of any kind that they had ever set up and we
provided considerable assistance to them. In many cases,
In addition, we used the World Whistleblower
this also involved obtaining basic identity documents,
Day on June 23 to promote our Speak
such as birth certificates for farmers.
Up culture across the organization. We
conducted a communication campaign to
thank our colleagues for having the courage
to step forward and report non-compliance
concerns. We also used a quiz on our internal
Workplace as an engaging way to help
employees improve their knowledge of Speak
Up. Our global campaigns are supplemented
by numerous communication campaigns in
the markets.
Ethical business is It is important for employees to feel able to
a core part of our raise concerns – which is why we work hard
corporate culture. to build a Speak Up culture.
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 62
About this report
This Creating Shared Value and Reporting scope, boundaries Independent assurance This assurance engagement was performed – Percentage of water consumed in regions We hope you find this report interesting and
and methodology We engaged two third-party organizations to in accordance with the International Standard with High or Extremely High Baseline informative. Please share your feedback and
Sustainability Report 2022 aims
This report covers our global operations and provide independent assurance of the content on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 to Water Stress suggestions with us:
contains data for wholly owned companies and of this report in 2022. provide limited assurance. Our Reporting – Water withdrawals at our factories by creatingsharedvalue@nestle.com
to provide a full and balanced
subsidiaries that are consolidated in the Nestlé Scope and Methodology for ESG KPIs product category (m3 per tonne of product)
picture of Nestlé’s material S.A. financial statements, excluding associates Bureau Veritas has provided independent document provides details and definitions – Total weight of packaging in tonnes
and joint ventures and suppliers unless assurance of the accuracy, reliability and of these selected KPIs and can be found at – Percentage of packaging made from
topics, related impacts and otherwise stated. Our environmental data objectivity of the information included in this www.nestle.com/sites/default/files/2023-03/ recycled and/or renewable materials
refers to factories and warehouses, except for report, and that it covers our material issues. reporting-scope-methodology-esg-kpis-2022- – Percentage of packaging that is reusable,
performance in the calendar
acquisitions that occurred after 31 December The assurance process was conducted in en.pdf. recyclable or compostable
2021. Our separate Reporting Scope and line with the requirements of the AA1000 – Percentage of recycled plastic in
year ending 31 December
Methodology for ESG KPIs document provides Assurance Standard (AA1000AS v3) Type 2 As part of this engagement, EY reviewed the plastic packaging
2022. The report is aimed at more detailed definitions and methodologies at moderate level of assurance. following additional indicators that are related – Packaging pieces placed on the market
for selected strategic key performance The full assurance statement with Bureau to the selected KPIs for consistency: – Percentage of global plastic use by weight
a broad audience including
indicators with limited assurance. All monetary Veritas’ independent opinion can be found at – Total Scope 1+2+3 emissions (CO e) and type, as % of total
2
amounts are in Swiss francs (CHF), unless www.nestle.com/assurance-statement. – Percentage of renewable electricity sourced – Total weight of plastic packaging
investors, non-governmental
otherwise stated. – Percentage of global fleet of vehicles – Job opportunities for people under 30
organizations, environmental, In addition, we engaged EY to provide switched to lower-emission options – Apprenticeship and traineeship opportunities
Our Annual Review provides an overview of independent assurance on the following – Total energy consumed – Young farmers trained through
social and governance services, our product categories, operating segments selected key performance indicators (KPIs) of – Percentage of energy consumed that Agripreneurship Program
and markets where we operate, as well as any high strategic importance: is renewable energy – Number of young people impacted through
customers and suppliers.
significant changes to our operations in 2022. – CO e reductions compared with business- – Percentage of energy consumed that digital events (e.g. career fairs, educational EY assured. The EY limited assurance report
2
‘Market’ refers to business operations and/or as-usual scenario, and removals secured was supplied from grid electricity webinars, e-learning programs) that focus and conclusion can be found at
We provide further information about our activities at a national level, while ‘Zone’ refers in 2022 – Millions of trees secured on upskilling young people and make them www.nestle.com/assurance-statement
approach and programs for each material to a geographic group of markets. – GHG emissions Scope 1 – Million tonnes CO e secured through more employable
2
topic online at www.nestle.com/sustainability. – GHG emissions Scope 2 tree-planting projects initiated
Forward-looking statements
For investors, we also provide an overview Reporting frameworks – GHG emissions Scope 3 – Percentage certified sustainable palm oil All other data points are assured by Bureau
This report contains forward-looking
of activity related to our major material This report has been produced with reference – Water use reduction in factories – Percentage coffee sustainably produced Veritas, except for waste volumes (page 13)
statements based upon current
issues in our Annual Review at to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) – Percentage of key ingredients produced – Percentage cocoa sourced through the and the % reduction in water withdrawals
expectations and assumptions regarding
www.nestle.com/investors. Consolidated Set of Standards 2021. We sustainably Nestlé Cocoa Plan at our factories by product category since
anticipated developments and other factors.
also applied the Sustainability Accounting – Percentage of key ingredients sourced – Percentage cage-free eggs 2010 (page 27), which have not been assured
They are not historical facts, nor are they
Standards Board (SASB) Standard for the through regenerative agriculture methods – Percentage Nespresso coffee sourced for 2022.
guarantees of future performance since
Processed Foods sector and World Economic – Percentage of assessed deforestation-free via the Nespresso AAA Sustainable
they are subject to numerous assumptions,
Forum Stakeholder Capitalism metrics. for primary supply chains Quality™ Program
risks, and uncertainties, which change
Our GRI Content Index and SASB Index are – Percentage of virgin plastic reduction – Percentage Nescafé coffee
over time. Forward-looking statements
available on our website. – Percentage of plastic packaging designed sustainably sourced
speak only as of the date they are made,
for recycling – Total water withdrawn in m3/y
and various factors could cause actual
– Number of servings of affordable nutrition (+ breakdown by source*)
performance to differ materially from that
with micronutrient fortification – Total water consumed in m3/y
expressed or implied by these forward-
– Number of young people around the world – Percentage of water withdrawn in regions
looking statements. Nestlé assumes no
with access to economic opportunities with High or Extremely High Baseline
duty to and does not undertake to update
– Percentage of women in the top 200+ senior Water Stress
forward-looking statements.
executive positions
Table of contents Creating Shared Value and Sustainability Report 2022 63
