Creating Shared Value
at Nestlé
2024
Table of contents
A MESSAGE FROM OUR CASE STUDY HIGHLIGHTS
CEO AND OUR CHAIRMAN
3
Ensuring access to high-quality,
affordable protein
CREATING SHARED VALUE 14
4
Transforming the lives of people
PEOPLE, FAMILIES & PETS
living with Phenylketonuria (PKU)
8 17
Our values: a strong commitment to better nutrition /
Growing and evolving our portfolio / Guiding people toward
tasty and balanced diets / Affordable nutrition: improving food
access and strengthening communities / Nestlé Research and
Development: driving innovation to enhance nutrition, health and
wellness / The life-long nutrition approach / Building trust: ensuring
food safety and quality across the business / Helping to restore marine habitats
Reporting transparently: strengthening trust with clear to protect future fish populations Affordable crop insurance
information / Balancing nutrition and sustainability 31 gives coffee farmers protection
41
PEOPLE & PLANET Developing local infrastructure
22 to enable consumer composting Supporting youth with food science
33 and technology competencies
Addressing climate change: a business imperative /
to strengthen food security in Africa
Regenerative agriculture: integrating nature-based solutions /
46
Forest preservation: sustaining natural ecosystems, strengthening
business / Promoting water sustainability in and around our Addressing gaps in support, resources
operations / Packaging: progressing on our circular economy and education for maternal health
journey / Advocacy: helping to drive change and collective action 20
PEOPLE IN COMMUNITIES
37
Responsible sourcing: creating value for all value chain actors /
Ensuring compliance with our standards / Human rights: building
fair livelihoods and resilient communities / Human Rights Salient
Issue Action Plans / Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I): building
a stronger business / Nestlé’s commitment to youth: fostering
future talent to maximize impact
Empowering dairy farmers
DELIVERING ON OUR PROMISE for climate action in China
36 Supporting Indonesia’s farmers
OF CREATING SHARED VALUE
to improve livelihoods
50 Regenerative agriculture boosts soil 48
health to deliver quality crops
28
2 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
A MESSAGE FROM OUR Creating Shared Value is how we do business. Let us set measures and progress in Creating Shared Value reports.
out how and why it is important for Nestlé to create value This year, our statutory non-financial reporting format has
CEO AND OUR CHAIRMAN
for society as well as for our shareholders. That’s what changed. This ensures we meet regulatory requirements
we mean by shared value. Doing business in ways that in Switzerland and anticipates our future obligation to
address global and local issues is our priority today, as report following the European Sustainability Reporting
it has been for generations. We have been in business Standards (ESRS). The new non-financial statement is
for nearly 160 years. Over that time, we have established published with the Annual Report and contains all the
strong bonds with the hundreds of thousands of farmers data previously published in our Creating Shared Value
we work with directly, and the many thousands more & Sustainability Report.
we work with indirectly across our value chain. Together
with our suppliers, we are striving to have a positive This publication should be read along with our statutory
impact on the environment, on the communities where reporting to give concrete examples on how we support
our ingredients come from and beyond. people, planet and communities and how this differen-
tiates Nestlé as a company. We hope that you will find
Nestlé’s strength is that we are both a global and a local it useful and informative. To be successful, we cannot
company. In many countries where we operate, people work alone. We hope this document will encourage
think of us as local because of a century or more of others to partner with us, advise us and guide us so we
local presence and because of our real understanding can maximize the positive impact that Nestlé achieves
of people’s preferences and needs. Nestlé brands are through Creating Shared Value across our business and
well-known and well-loved. People expect a Nestlé prod- around the world.
uct to be high-quality, safe and made from ingredients
which have been carefully produced – and it should also
Nestlé is the Nutrition, Health and Wellness company. taste great. This is how we earn people’s trust every
Our purpose is to unlock the power of food to enhance day. Trust is a competitive advantage in a world that is
quality of life for everyone, today and for generations to increasingly fragmented, unstable and uncertain.
come. This is both a responsibility and an opportunity
for Nestlé. There is no higher priority for our company Our business is founded on respect – for those who work
than enhancing the quality of people’s lives and playing for us, for those we work with, and for those we encounter Laurent Freixe, Chief Executive Officer
a unique role in the diets of everyone, everywhere at in bringing our products to market. We need to make
all stages of life. We continue in the footsteps of Henri our company more resilient to ensure we can continue
Nestlé, who championed scientific research as the bed- to thrive in an increasingly volatile world. In doing so,
rock of product development that fostered health and we aim to contribute to the resilience of the communi-
wellness. Across the world people are living longer. They ties we serve by providing secure employment, reliable
want to enjoy healthy longevity, and eating a balanced and sustainable supplies of food and beverages, and
diet is a key part of that. We recognize that as a food, support for local, regional and global efforts to evolve
beverage and nutrition company we have a vital role to and strengthen the food systems we all rely on. Each
play supporting these aspirations. year since 2007, we have communicated clear goals, Paul Bulcke, Chairman
3 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Creating Shared
Value
4 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
CREATING SHARED VALUE:
A FRAMEWORK TO ADDRESS
ISSUES IN TODAY’S
FOOD SYSTEM
Creating Shared Value as a concept is based on our
strong conviction that a company should create value
both for its shareholders and for society at large.
This is how Nestlé has done business since the company
was founded nearly 160 years ago. Twenty years ago,
the concept was articulated when Nestlé worked with
FSG, a social impact consulting firm led by Michael Porter
and Mark Kramer, on a report documenting Nestlé’s
contribution to society in Latin America. Creating Shared Launched in May 2024, the
Nescafé Gold refill paper pack
Value was the suggested name for this new approach.
is fully recyclable and uses
Subsequently, the concept was defined more rigorously 97% less packaging weight
and the term adopted company-wide. compared to our Nescafé Gold
Blend 200g jars. Designed with
consumer convenience in mind,
Creating Shared Value was about seeking out ways to the paper packs can be used
to refill the glass jar, giving it a
connect business strategy and opportunities for the
longer life, while maintaining
growth and progress of society. Where this could be the same great taste and aroma.
achieved, there was considerable potential for compa-
nies to contribute more strongly to sustainable global
growth. Over the years, Porter and Kramer continued to
develop the concept further and give it a life of its own.
depletion of natural resources and damaging the natural Building resilience
Creating Shared Value: meeting global challenges ecosystems we rely on to produce food.
One company cannot solve all these problems alone, but
Today, Creating Shared Value is as relevant as it has ever Obesity rates have risen dramatically over recent decades, we can contribute to the wider efforts to address them.
been. The challenges that the company has to navigate leading to numerous health issues that significantly In the face of this volatility, it becomes more important
are no easier now than they were at the start of the impact quality of life. We see considerable economic than ever that large multinational companies like Nestlé
century. The global food system is at a critical juncture. inequality within societies and between countries. The are resilient and stable. Resilience not only benefits their
The effects of a warming planet, the resulting nature and world has made little progress in addressing disparities shareholders but also other stakeholders: employees,
biodiversity loss and extreme weather events are more in income and opportunity for the most vulnerable. suppliers, partners, customers and, of course, the people
and more evident. Climate change is speeding up the who buy their products.
5 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
This is the Creating Shared Value approach. All of these
issues affect our business. Developing solutions to OUR REGENERATION WHEEL: HOW WE CREATE SHARED VALUE
address them can create opportunities for faster growth
and lower costs for Nestlé. Creating Shared Value is
a strategy for improving corporate returns as well as
addressing society’s problems. It also helps to build trust.
Trust is paramount for a fast-moving consumer goods
company of our size and our scale. We need to earn the
trust of consumers and other stakeholders every day.
The challenges listed above are all interconnected.
Nestlé’s efforts to help address them are holistic. We
use what we call our regeneration wheel to show how
the different areas where we work on Creating Shared
Value are interconnected. It reflects our aim to deliver
value for people and pets, communities and the planet
while ensuring our long-term business success.
The chapters in this book follow the same logic. Although
each covers a different area – People, families and pets,
People and planet and People in communities – they can
be read together as part of one narrative, reflecting the
holistic approach we take. Our Creating Shared Value
principles are key to building a food system that meets
the needs of people, while aiming to safeguard our planet
for future generations.
Sound governance
We want to be the trusted leader in our sector. Building
our business on clear principles and sound governance
helps maintain trust in the Nestlé brand and reduce risk
throughout our value chain. You can read more about our
sustainability governance structure in the Non-Financial
Statement 2024. In 2009, Nestlé created an external advi-
sory council to help ensure the development of long-term
sustainability and positive social and economic impacts
6 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
of our Creating Shared Value approach. Chaired by Janet
Voûte, the Creating Shared Value Council comprises ten CREATING SHARED VALUE FOR NEARLY 20 YEARS
members whose expertise spans strategy, sustainability,
nutrition, water, nature and biodiversity, food systems Almost 20 years ago, Nestlé codified its way of people, families, pets and communities that is at
and rural development. doing business in the concept of creating shared the core of Nestlé’s strategy. Nestlé’s commitment
value – delivering shareholder value by advancing the to Creating Shared Value is a key differentiator
The expertise of our external advisors helps us on our well-being of all stakeholders. Today, this commit- from its competitors and the primary source of
transformation journey. We aim to inspire the rest of our ment continues to drive innovation and competitive its enduring competitive advantage.
industry, collaborate where it matters with our peers and advantage across all of Nestlé’s business segments.
encourage consumers to make choices that help in the Consider just a few examples: Mark Kramer
shift toward regenerative food systems. Creating Shared Co-founder & Director of FSG
Former Faculty of Harvard Business School
Value is the framework that helps ensure that we do so – Aiming to address nutritional deficiencies and and Co-author of Creating Shared Value
in a way that makes sense for our business. inadequacies in emerging markets through infant Member of Nestlé’s Creating Shared Value Council
cereals and affordable Maggi bouillon cubes, for-
tified with essential micronutrients
– Improving livelihoods and the environmental
impact of smallholder farmers who supply Nestlé
with coffee, cocoa and milk through improved plant
stock, financing, training and technical advice
– Partnering with other major corporations to cre-
ate career opportunities for youth
– Working with partners across the industry to
improve packaging solutions and infrastructure
for collection
– Innovating with plant-based foods to help address
health, affordability and climate challenges.
It is essential to report data and hold the com-
pany accountable for meeting its ambitious social
and environmental goals. Data alone, however,
cannot show the deep commitment across all of
Nestlé’s 277 000 employees to use the company’s
resources and capabilities to develop products and
conduct business in ways that promote nutrition,
health and wellness. Nor can that data show the
vision of a regenerative food system that sustains
7 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
People, Families
and Pets
8 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Our progress at a glance*
59%
of net sales that have
Health Star Rating
(HSR) 3.5 or above**
132
** Includes specialized nutrition, for which HSR does not apply.
Calculations are based on the recipe for each product. 73%
billion servings of net sales covered, excludes PetCare and non-food items and
some entities where the recipes were not available this year.
of micronutrient-fortified
Specialized nutrition includes products sold by our Nutrition and
* For information on our progress, see our Nestlé Health Science (NHS), which provide nutritional benefits
affordable nutrition
Non-Financial Statement 2024. and for which the HSR system generally does not apply.
9 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Nestlé is the Nutrition, Health and
Wellness company, enhancing the
quality of people’s lives with food,
nutrition and beverages, backed
by science-based innovation to
address key consumer needs.
Good food, good life – this is what
we stand for.
Our Good for You strategy is how we deliver Nutrition countries worldwide, our ambition is to help bring tasty
Health and Wellness. Every day, everywhere, people and balanced diets within reach for billions. We deliver
are doing their best to eat well, and through deep con- this through our portfolio and products, and through
sumer insights we understand the barriers that get in communication and services. We aim to grow sales of
their way. This can be access to affordable nutrition, our more nutritious products by CHF 20-25 billion by
a need for convenience, or finding products and sup- 2030* and provide transparent information and support
* The target assumes constant foreign exchange rates.
port for specific needs such as healthy longevity and to help consumers make informed choices.
Should any material acquisitions or divestitures take
place, the target may be adjusted accordingly. weight management. As a trusted partner, present in 185
10 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Since the very beginning, Nestlé has organization, we are uniquely positioned to deliver differ-
been developing products to support
entiating, s cience-based solutions and enable millions
better nutrition. For example, Henri
Nestlé’s ’farine lactée’ (flour with milk) of people to access affordable and nutritious food and
product was created for infants who beverages.
couldn’t be breastfed, to tackle high
mortality rates.
Access to food and beverages, coupled with sound
nutrition, is fundamental to supporting good health,
wellbeing and quality of life for all. The consequences of
nutritional imbalance, whether excess or deficiency, can
be detrimental. A balanced approach to nutrition is more
than just avoidance of excess – it ensures that people
receive the essential nutrients their bodies require for
growth, development and optimal functioning, tailored
to their life stages and lifestyles. Access to nutritious
food and beverages also has an impact on social and
economic stability. Food insecurity leads to increased
healthcare costs, diminished productivity and greater
reliance on social services. By helping to support access
to high-quality, safe food and beverages, we aim to
foster healthier communities.
Growing and evolving our portfolio
Nestlé offers an extensive array of products and services
across multiple categories, including Powdered and
Our values: a strong commitment scientific research as the bedrock of product develop- Liquid Beverages, PetCare, Nutrition and Health Science,
to better nutrition ment that fostered health and wellness. This approach, Prepared dishes and cooking aids, Milk products and
building a deep understanding of the nutritional needs Ice cream, Confectionery and Water. We cater to every
Good nutrition is not merely a choice – it is the corner- of consumers, has been a guiding principle for Nestlé stage of life, from pre-conception to old age, and every
stone of health and wellbeing for everyone. Nearly 160 throughout our history. meal occasion in the day, from breakfast to dinner to
years ago, Henri Nestlé established our company with a the indulgence of a late-night snack. With 31 billionaire
commitment to improving infant nutrition. His ground- Our founder used high-quality ingredients and pioneered brands, we have established strong businesses in both
breaking development of a milk-based infant cereal in safe food production practices which set the standard developed and developing markets, leading the way in
the late 19th century met a critical need: providing safe for the company. His philosophy is reflected in Nestlé’s the categories we serve. Our success is rooted in our
and nutritious feeding options for infants unable to be ongoing efforts to promote healthy eating habits and dedication to tailor our offerings to local tastes and pref-
breastfed. This innovation became the foundation for lifestyles. Our strategy today is the result of the values he erences, forging strong connections with communities
Nestlé’s focus on nutrition. Henri Nestlé championed established. With our strong research and development around the globe.
11 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
The breadth of products we offer is our strength, pro-
viding value to consumers and investors alike. Many of PROGRESSIVELY IMPROVING OUR PRODUCTS BASED ON THEIR ROLE IN A BALANCED DIET
our products are designed to accompany a meal and to
be consumed with plenty of fresh foods.
In our pursuit of better products, we seek to enhance
positive nutrients, minimize public health-sensitive nutri-
ents and elevate taste. Nutrient profiling systems are
used to steer both new product development and the
reformulation of existing products, with the aim of improv-
ing nutrient density where possible. This can involve
reducing sugar, sodium or saturated fat, or increasing
protein, fiber and food groups like fruit, nuts, legumes
and vegetables. Taste, texture, cost and sustainability
are all important as we consider local dietary habits,
population and individual needs and cultural contexts.
Guiding people toward
tasty and balanced diets
Navigating the complexities of what constitutes a bal-
anced diet, based on individual needs and access to
food, is not easy: people find themselves falling short of *Based on FAO & WHO definition of healthy diet, 2024.
where they would like to be, or wishing for clear guidance.
With our global scale and reach, Nestlé is uniquely
positioned to help people understand more about bal-
anced diets and healthy lifestyles. Supporting a balanced
approach to nutrition – one that delivers the essential
nutrients our bodies need to thrive – is a catalyst for
encouraging healthier individuals, families and com- Transparency begins with the product packaging, the crit- suggestions, illustrating how our products can be paired
munities. Our Good for You strategy shapes the evolution ical touchpoint for information. We champion transparent with salads, vegetables or proteins for a balanced meal.
of our product portfolio while equipping people with the nutrition labeling and intuitive consumption guidance,
tools, transparency and information necessary to make including appropriate portion sizes. Where regulations We understand that people are unwilling to compromise
informed decisions, helping to foster responsible con- permit, we enhance this with front-of-pack labeling on taste, especially in indulgent categories like confec-
sumption and nutritious choices. This is a critical part that clearly communicates the nutritional profile of the tionery and ice cream. For these products, in addition to
of our Creating Shared Value approach. product in store. We also provide recipes and serving making sure they offer great taste and value for money,
12 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Children learn about nutritional support, and rewards, empowering families to
the importance of a
maintain a balanced diet. In the Philippines, the Nestlé
balanced diet in a Nestlé
for Healthier Kids cooking Goodnes website supports people on their journey to
class in Hungary. healthier eating and balanced diets, providing information
about nutrition and an array of tools designed to tackle
common challenges.
We also want to help children and young people under-
stand the importance of a balanced diet, good hygiene
and physical activity. The Nestlé for Healthier Kids pro-
gram is a useful resource for parents and caregivers,
promoting balanced diets and healthy lifestyles through
engaging educational programs and digital resources.
The program incorporates storytelling, physical activities
and practical tips that involve children in shopping and
meal preparation. Our goal is to guide consumers toward
making informed choices for a healthy and balanced
lifestyle, while simultaneously simplifying these choices
by expanding our portfolio with more nutritious products.
Affordable nutrition: improving food access
and strengthening communities
For millions of people, the fundamental human right to
a nutritionally adequate diet at a price they can afford
remains out of reach. This reality is devastating, leading
we aim to indicate appropriate portion sizes and clear children’s portions at 110 kcal by the end of 2026, and all to lifelong consequences such as wasting and stunting,
guidance on the pack. Our R&D teams have developed our multi-serve products in these categories also feature while heightening the risks of illness and infectious dis-
an algorithm that considers typical consumption patterns, clear front-of-pack portion guidance. Our commitment eases. The toll is not only personal – it weakens com-
dietary guidelines and regulated serving sizes from over to responsible marketing is unwavering; we are among munities and cripples economies. The World Health
ninety countries to ensure we calculate credible portion the few companies that have restricted the marketing Organization estimates that over two billion people suffer
sizes during product development, enabling clear com- of indulgent products to children under 16. from some form of micronutrient deficiency, with iron,
munication on-pack where possible. vitamin A and zinc among the most prevalent.
Beyond the packaging, we are revolutionizing our digital
We have committed to responsible portion sizes for services across different markets. Our online platforms Nestlé helps address this pressing global health crisis
our confectionery and ice cream products where local featuring Nestlé brands offer consumers informative by delivering accessible, affordable nutrition to those on
regulations allow. For instance, we are working to cap all recipes, weekly meal plans, lifestyle tips, personalized lower incomes, helping to close nutrient gaps, particularly
13 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
in emerging markets. To maximize our positive impact,
we create products that not only aim to address locally ENSURING ACCESS TO HIGH-QUALITY, AFFORDABLE PROTEIN
relevant nutritional deficiencies but are also consumed
by Elena Gall, R&D Specialist, Affordable Nutrition, Nestlé Product Technology Center, Singen, Germany
regularly by a large proportion of the population. These
offerings can contribute to a balanced and varied diet Protein is an essential nutrient the body needs for affordable, shelf-stable and, importantly, have a taste
and are affordable for those most in need. With this healthy growth and development. and texture profile that fits into local diet and cuisine.
approach, we address critical societal needs and also Our Maggi Soya Chunks are providing people in Central
create lasting value for the Nestlé business. In many countries, people struggle to access and West Africa with a tasty, soy-based alternative
good-quality and nutritious food that is affordable. to meat. The similarity to meat in taste, texture and
In 2024 alone, we provided 132 billion servings of afford- Storing food and maintaining the quality and fresh- versatility make the soya chunks a flexible protein
able micronutrient-fortified foods. We have decades of ness of meat, for example, can also be a challenge source for a variety of family meals, at a lower cost
experience in fortifying foods and beverages with essential in some regions. than comparable meat alternatives.
micronutrients such as iron, zinc and iodine, backed by
rigorous scientific research and consumer insights. To address this, we have been working on developing In Chile, we launched the plant-based alternative
a range of solutions – from plant-based alternatives Maggi Rindecarne. The mix of soy and spices allows
We leverage data from international and national health to meat extenders. These solutions are high-quality, consumers to prepare a dish combining meat and
authorities to pinpoint specific micronutrient deficiencies plant-based proteins, thereby doubling the number
prevalent in various populations. We set stringent limits on of servings at an affordable price and retaining the
fortification per serving to mitigate the risks of excessive nutritional value without compromising on taste.
consumption and always comply with local regulations.
We provide clear and accessible information about the Affordability is key to reaching broader communities
nutritional benefits of our fortified products, while pro- all over the world. By expanding our affordable nutri-
moting healthy lifestyles in the communities we serve. tion offerings, using our iconic brands like Maggi, we
are making a real difference in the everyday lives of
Affordable nutrition is also becoming a topic beyond people, helping them achieve a balanced diet within
emerging markets as families try to manage in inflationary their budget.
environments. We are expanding our range of products
to meet the evolving needs of those consumers and help
them balance their budgets by providing good quality
products in varied formats and with a variety of options
and offers. As we support the evolution of food systems,
we are committed to introducing more affordable protein
options and ensuring we produce our products sustainably.
Maggi Soya Chunks are an
affordable meat-alternative that
can be used in local recipes
providing families with a valuable
source of protein in Nigeria.
14 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Nestlé Research and Development: driving N3 Milk is made from cow’s
milk and contains essential
innovation to enhance nutrition, health and wellness
nutrients found in milk, such
as proteins and vitamins, but it
Our Research and Development stands at the forefront is low in lactose and contains
beneficial prebiotic fibers. To
of the food industry, powered by a dedicated team of
support Chinese consumers,
over 4 000 employees across a network of twenty-three many of whom are sensitive
to lactose, N3 Milk uses
research and development sites worldwide. Nestlé
specialized enzymes to convert
Research and Development provides the scientific foun- the lactose naturally present in
dations for our innovations – from food safety to nutrition cow’s milk into prebiotic fibers
that can deliver gut microbiome
and health research to agriculture and packaging – and
benefits in healthy adults.
translates scientific discoveries into product and tech-
nology solutions for people and pets.
The strength of our science and technology capabili-
ties empowers us to harness the latest advancements
in nutritional science, giving us a decisive edge in the
creation of new products. Our commitment to research
and development does not merely enhance the health
of individuals today – it propels us into the future, con-
tinually redefining the boundaries of nutrition science
and dietary research.
The life-long nutrition approach
Life stages are fundamental determinants of nutritional
needs. Infants need higher intakes of fats to support
brain development, children require more protein and Nestlé is committed to addressing these diverse and Our aim is to enhance quality of life across all life stages,
calcium for bone growth, pregnant women need folic evolving nutritional needs through a tailored approach focusing on the well-being of mothers to support the
acid to support fetal development, while older adults that combines our extensive knowledge of nutrition sci- health and development of future generations. There
require higher intakes of calcium, vitamin D and fiber ence, industry-leading research and development, and is an urgent need to elevate awareness of women’s
to maintain bone health and digestive function, as profound consumer insights. For some, this means inno- health issues while expanding the range of solutions
well as protein to maintain muscle mass. Nutritional vative food solutions that promote gut health; for others, available. The health of infants – extending beyond birth
requirements are not uniform – they are significantly it entails providing the essential protein that active aging into adulthood – is irrevocably linked to maternal nutri-
influenced by lifestyle, culture, socioeconomic factors, adults require, options for people with food allergies or tion; the dietary choices women make before, during
or by medical conditions that necessitate specialized intolerances, or tailored support for women embarking and after pregnancy have profound implications both
nutrition. on the transformative journey of motherhood. for their health and that of their children.
15 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
This represents a significant social imperative and an steadfastly advocate for breastfeeding as the optimal start striving to meet the needs of aging populations. Our
opportunity for Nestlé, leveraging our deep-rooted in life, while also responsibly providing alternatives for nutritional solutions empower people to lead more active
expertise in optimal infant nutrition. Nestlé aims to mothers or caregivers who choose a different path and lives as they get older.
support good nutrition for mothers, addressing every those obliged to use infant formula for medical reasons.
stage: preparing for pregnancy, ensuring a healthy Breastfeeding provides the best nutritional start in life for Beloved pets also experience changes throughout
gestation, supporting postpartum recovery and pro- babies. That is why we do not promote infant formula their life cycles. Our dedicated team of Purina nutri-
moting lactation. for babies under six months, as a minimum, anywhere. tionists, behaviorists, veterinarians and specialists
is relentlessly innovating to shape the future of pet
Supporting newborns and infants is crucial for laying As life expectancy rises, individuals increasingly seek to care, crafting products precisely formulated for optimal
the groundwork for healthy growth and development. enhance their quality of life – considering not just lifes- nutrient absorption and targeted benefits at every life
Nutrient-dense foods during early childhood are vital, as pan, but health span. We provide nutritional support for stage. We strive to strengthen the bond between pets
small stomachs struggle to accommodate large volumes active lifestyles at every life stage with vitamins, minerals and their owners, such as by developing pet food that
of food; thus, fortified infant cereals and milk formulas and supplements. Addressing the challenges of healthy minimizes allergens in cats, allowing families to enjoy
play a key role in delivering critical nutrients like iron. We aging is imperative, both for individuals and for societies a harmonious relationship with their pets.
NUTRITION REQUIREMENTS CHANGE ACROSS LIFE STAGES
16 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Our Nestlé Health Science business delivers specialized
medical nutrition for individuals facing illness, disease, TRANSFORMING THE LIVES OF PEOPLE LIVING WITH PHENYLKETONURIA (PKU)
allergies and genetic conditions. We are also pioneering
by Richard Farquhar, patient living with PKU
new foods designed to support those on GLP-1 weight
loss medication, focusing on high-protein options that I’ve been living with Phenylketonuria my entire life. The Vitaflo Live Life Well program, part of Nestlé
are a good source of fiber for consumers who are trying Phenylketonuria, or PKU, is a rare genetic disorder. For Health Science, has made a huge difference. I first
to manage or lose weight. We complement this initiative most people, protein in foods is broken down during came across the program via a social media post
with a tailored online platform that responds dynami- digestion into amino acids, which are the ’building and it immediately caught my attention. The initiative
cally to consumer needs, reinforcing our long-standing blocks’ of protein that our bodies use for various has given me valuable insights on various aspects
commitment to effective weight management solutions. functions, like maintaining muscles or repairing tis- of managing my health – not just my diet, but also
sues. People with PKU cannot break down one of sleep, fitness and mental well-being, which were
Building trust: ensuring food safety the amino acids, which means there’s a risk that it often overlooked in my usual medical appointments. I
and quality across the business builds up in their body with serious health effects, joined the program’s virtual sessions, where I learned
like brain damage. For me, to manage my condition, directly from experts in the field and could connect
Ensuring the quality and safety of our food and bever- I need to follow a strict low-protein diet. It’s a con- with other people who share the same struggles and
ages, our nutrition products and our products for pets stant challenge. experiences with PKU.
is of paramount importance. Our consumers demand
and deserve the highest standards of quality and safety, It has been a transformative experience because
alongside strict adherence to food safety regulations. the program has improved my overall mindset and
This requires relentless focus, day in, day out, at every lifestyle. For instance, after a session on sleep and
Nestlé manufacturing site, logistics hub and distribution recovery, I invested in a sleep tracker, and that decision
center. We review the results of our actions in this area changed my entire approach to wellness. I became
regularly, and where necessary use the findings to fur- more conscious of how in addition to a well-managed
ther strengthen our understanding of how to keep our protein diet, different factors like exercise and even
products safe. We are constantly seeking to fortify our stress, impacted my sleep and, in turn, my health.
competencies and improve our performance.
Through Vitaflo Live Life Well, I’ve not only gained
Quality assurance and product safety is one of our practical tools to help me manage on a day-to-day
Corporate Business Principles, guiding every facet of our basis but also a sense of community, which has been
operations. We adopt a comprehensive, end-to-end per- invaluable. Today, I feel more empowered, more
spective that encompasses product design, delivery and informed, and better equipped to live my life to the
the consumer experience. We are evolving our systems fullest, despite PKU.
continually to be more predictive and interconnected,
enhancing food safety at every stage of our process. Richard, who has been diagnosed with PKU, is part of the
Vitafriends PKU community. After finding that many gym pro-
grams were designed around protein, he decided to share videos
Our dedication to food safety across our organization and fitness tips for others with PKU or on low-protein diets.
also creates value for the broader food industry through
17 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
pioneering research spearheaded by the Nestlé Institute Since then, we have been reporting the percentage of
of Food Safety and Analytical Sciences. The insights our products with Health Star Rating, as well as local, A CUTTING-EDGE AI TOOL TO IDENTIFY FOOD
gained from this research are applied across specific government-endorsed nutrient profiling systems, where SAFETY RISKS AT THE EARLIEST OPPORTUNITY
product categories in R&D centers and factories around available. You can review the data for our whole portfolio
by Raquel Medeiros,
the globe. Our commitment to food safety is unwaver- in our Non-Financial Statement 2024. We continue to Head of Global Food Safety Issue Round Table, Nestlé
ing. The field is dynamic, and evolving with emerging explore how to evolve our reporting.
technologies that empower us to anticipate and prevent
potential issues. We have introduced a new Food Safety We are closely watching the science around the links
Assessment program designed to verify our food safety between ingredients, processing and health, under-
practices, ensuring the highest standards are consis- standing that the debate around food processing leaves
tently met. many people confused or concerned. When it comes to
health-sensitive nutrients like fat, sugar and salt, we have
Our Quality Management System begins at the source over many years taken steps to reformulate products while
of many of our ingredients – on the farms. We collab- maintaining quality, food safety and – importantly – great
orate with farmers in rural communities, empowering taste, helping address concerns about ’health-sensitive
them to enhance the quality of their materials and adopt nutrients’ or certain additives. As the debate continues,
environmentally sustainable practices. This not only we will carry on providing consumers with clear, trans- Nestlé’s Food Safety Early Warning process uses
secures our access to premium raw materials but also parent information about how our products are made a cutting-edge solution to detect potential food
supports the livelihoods of farmers, fostering prosperity and how we are improving the nutritional value of our safety risks. The tool, SGS-Digicomply, co-created
in their communities. portfolio, and we seek to answer any concerns people with our partner SGS, uses AI-powered algorithms
might have. to monitor more than 10 000 trusted web sources,
Our rigorous supplier qualification and onboarding pro- including scientific literature and regulatory alerts
cess ensures food safety and compliance at every level. translated from 90 different languages. It scans
Through comprehensive audits and inspections, we them in real-time for any relevant data on existing
ensure adherence to our stringent internal standards, or emerging food safety hazards. This helps the
regulatory requirements and international guidelines. teams to identify emerging risks, such as new
We provide guidance and resources to cultivate a robust contaminants which can then be assessed and
understanding of our rigorous food safety protocols, prioritized for the implementation of appropriate
ensuring their effective implementation. risk management activities.
Reporting transparently: strengthening Importantly, the tool has been made commercially
trust with clear information available more widely, giving small and medi-
um-sized food companies access to the same
Two years ago, Nestlé became one of the first food and insights. This democratization of food safety data
beverage companies to transparently report the nutritional reflects our belief that food safety is a shared
value of our global portfolio, basing our reporting on a responsibility within the industry.
government approved system: the Health Star Rating.
18 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Balancing nutrition and sustainability health of our planet. For instance, our nutritious plant- We believe we are on the right trajectory, leveraging
based foods that not only enhance individual diets but our global reach, expertise and innovative capabilities
In the next chapter, we outline Nestlé’s proactive efforts also significantly reduce the environmental footprint of to drive economic growth, enhance the relevance of our
to confront the environmental challenges facing the food food production. portfolio to consumers and create a positive impact in
system. Our strategies for nutrition and environmental the communities we serve. Across all products, services
regeneration are inextricably linked, forming a holistic We are proud to be the Nutrition, Health and Wellness and more, Nestlé’s approach to innovation for people
framework that integrates responsible consumption, company. Central to our strategy is the conviction that and pets is a growth engine of which we are proud.
innovative practices, regenerative sourcing, waste reduc- Nestlé can empower people by helping them to eat well,
tion, circularity and active consumer engagement. We offering a diverse portfolio of products while guiding them
are resolute in our mission to empower consumers to toward balanced consumption. Our strategy is driven by
enjoy balanced diets while simultaneously nurturing the the wants, needs and expectations of our consumers.
We are driving innovation in
nutrition science to develop
options for healthier diets and
to meet diverse global needs.
19 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
ADDRESSING GAPS IN SUPPORT, RESOURCES
AND EDUCATION FOR MATERNAL HEALTH
by Dr. Andrea Cevallos, Gynecologist, based in Quito, Ecuador
Here in Ecuador, maternal mortality rates remain heart-
breakingly high. With every 100 000 babies born, 43.5
mothers die. These are deaths that are often caused
by preventable conditions like hypertension or sepsis.
I’ve been a gynecologist for the last three years. From my
practice in Quito, I see these challenges firsthand. Many
women arrive at consultations with pre-existing conditions
such as obesity, diabetes or hypertension – conditions
that could be managed or prevented with the right care
before pregnancy. But for many, the culture of routine
medical check-ups simply doesn’t exist, and our health-
care system is often reactive rather than proactive.
The new maternal health program – endorsed by PREIS
School and Meyer University in Florence, and supported
by Nestlé Nutrition Institute (NNI) – has been a trans-
formative tool in helping to address these issues. It
launched in 2023 to provide healthcare practitioners
with a structured digital curriculum focused on mater-
nal nutrition and early childhood development. For me,
it was a game-changer. I access the modules via my
mobile phone, and they are designed to fit around our
With Nestlé’s maternal health program, healthcare practitioners
demanding schedules, enabling us to learn anywhere,
like Dr. Andrea Cevallos are empowered to provide life-changing,
anytime. Topics like prenatal nutrition and breastfeeding preventive care.
practices are tailored to local contexts, offering insights
we can immediately apply to patient care. By including
input from renowned experts, the curriculum ensures
we’re learning from the best minds in the field, even if
we’re geographically remote.
What sets this program apart is its emphasis on prac-
tical, preventive measures. Before participating, I felt
20 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
my training often focused more on solving problems
in the emergency room rather than preventing them in
the first place. Now, I can have deeper, more impactful
conversations with patients, encouraging them to adopt
healthier lifestyles and understand how nutrition impacts
their pregnancies.
My patients have responded brilliantly. I’ve seen how
empowered and informed mothers can change not just
their own lives but also the well-being of their families
and communities.
“This program isn’t just about education – it’s a
partnership. By collaborating with international
universities, local ministries and healthcare organi-
zations, the program can be adapted for anywhere
in the world. In fact, the initiative is set to expand
to Asia, Africa and the Middle East in 2025, creat-
ing a global network of empowered practitioners.”
Heba Azer, Maternal Program lead at Nestlé Nutrition Institute (NNI)
Also, because the program content has been developed
by academic partners, its focus remains on empowering
healthcare practitioners.
Programs like this are vital in building healthier, stronger
communities – and I am proud to be part of this journey.
Together, we’re improving outcomes for mothers, families
and communities, one informed conversation at a time.
21 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
People and Planet
22 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Our progress at a glance*
20.38% net GHG 21.3% sourced from farmers 95.3% renewable electricity
emission adopting regenerative sourced in Nestlé’s
reduction agricultural practices manufacturing sites
vs. 2018
baseline
2024
By 2025, we aim to source
2025 100% renewable
2024 2025 2030 2050 electricity in all our
manufacturing sites
We aim to reduce our greenhouse
2030
gas (GHG) emissions by 20% by
2025 and 50% by 2030 from 2018
levels, on the road to net zero By 2025, we aim for 20% of our key ingredients
by 2050 at the latest to be sourced from farmers adopting regenerative 21.3% virgin plastic reduction
agricultural practices, and 50% by 2030 vs. 2018 baseline
8.2 million m3 volumetric 93.5% assessed
water benefits delivered deforestation-free By 2025, we aim to reduce
by implementing local virgin plastics by one third
water stewardship versus our 2018 baseline
projects
The Nestlé Waters Regeneration
Pledge aims to help nature retain 2.72 million m3 water
more water than the business use reduction
uses in all its operations by 2025 We aim to achieve and maintain 100% assessed in manufacturing
deforestation-free primary supply chains: meat, palm sites in 2024
oil, pulp and paper, soy, sugar, cocoa** and coffee**
* For information on our progress, see our
Non-Financial Statement 2024. ** by 2025
23 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Nestlé intends to have a resilient Our Good for the Planet strategy helps ensure we play our aim to ensure that all actors across our supply chain
part in addressing key challenges like climate change, can benefit. We advocate for policies that support our
business. To achieve this, we
nature loss, water scarcity and plastic pollution and approach at global, regional and local level, and seek
need to support the evolution supports us in advancing regenerative food systems partnerships with other organizations to scale up our
at scale. The strategy is key for our continuous growth, efforts. We are sensitive to the impacts of food inflation
of our food systems to operate
while ensuring we can serve future generations of con- on food access and actively look for efficiencies in our
within the limits of Earth’s nine
sumers without running out of natural resources. This value chain.
critical systems. These limits, is a critical part of Creating Shared Value.
To support the growing global population, the food sys-
known as Planetary Boundaries,
We collaborate closely with farmers, suppliers and part- tem must evolve to protect, renew and restore Earth’s
were established by scientists at ners to help create a more resilient food supply. The shift natural resources. If not, humanity’s future ability to feed
to the regenerative agriculture practices we champion itself is in doubt.
the Stockholm Resilience Centre.
must be accompanied with a just transition, and we
Earth’s critical systems are
essential to the future of food and
agriculture and are also impacted
by food and agricultural activities.
We make efforts to operate
within planetary boundaries while
ensuring that we can successfully
source the ingredients we need
and supporting the communities
we serve.
Butternut squash being
harvested for Gerber
at Karnemaat Farms,
Fremont, Michigan, USA.
24 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Addressing climate change: while also recognizing that there is much work still to be Nestlé’s Net Zero Roadmap includes a series of GHG
a business imperative done. By the end of last year we achieved a 20.38% net reduction targets across all three scopes of our GHG
reduction of GHG emissions versus our 2018 baseline. emissions. We have approved near- and long-term sci-
As a food, beverage and nutrition business, we are reli- When we talk about our GHG footprint, we are referring to ence-based emissions reduction targets with the Science
ant on the natural environment for the supply of raw the emissions within the scope of our commitment. You Based Targets initiative (SBTi). The SBTi has validated
ingredients to make our products. It is in our interests to can learn more about this in the Non-Financial Statement Nestlé’s net zero science-based target by 2050. These
ensure that this supply chain is resilient to the impacts 2024. We are aiming for a reduction of 50% by the end targets include our specific Forest, Land and Agriculture
of climate change. The warming of the planet brings of the decade. (FLAG) sector objectives for 2030 and 2050.
more frequent and erratic weather events, more pests
and diseases, nature loss and other challenges. These We are tackling the GHG emissions Nestlé creates directly By 2025, Nestlé aims to achieve 100% sourced renew-
have a negative impact on food-system productivity as a business (known as Scope 1), the emissions asso- able electricity in all manufacturing sites. By the end of
and on the well-being of farmers, producers and their ciated with the energy we buy and use (Scope 2) and 2024, we were at 95.3%. This reduces our reliance on
communities. In a changing climate, we strive to ensure those in our value chain (Scope 3). Almost all our GHG fossil fuels, protecting us against volatility in the cost of
that the company can continue to grow sustainably, and emissions (~95%) are from Scope 3 emissions. Dairy buying energy and helps deliver a significant reduction in
that the communities we serve can thrive. and livestock ingredients are the largest single source Nestlé’s Scope 2 emissions. We’re also identifying and
of our Scope 3 emissions, representing 30% of Nestlé’s progressively rolling out solutions to cut our self-gener-
Nestlé has committed to reaching net zero GHG emis- GHG emissions. ated Scope 1 emissions, aiming to scale these projects
sions by 2050. We are proud of the progress made so far, between 2025 and 2030.
OUR EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN BY SCOPE
25 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
While our Scope 3 emissions are outside of our direct
control, they are not outside of our sphere of influence. CREATING SHARED VALUE WITH REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE
Addressing them supports the transition to a low-carbon
economy. Maximizing the value of our investments in The Creating Shared Value (CSV) Council, an external pollute in or downstream. There is far more microbial
climate and nature through targeted advocacy, partner- advisory committee, is deeply committed to under- activity when soil health is made paramount. Just as
ship and unlocking co-financing opportunities is critical standing and supporting what is required to be a food the human microbiome determines our health, plant
for addressing our Scope 3 footprint – particularly in the company in a dramatically changing world. Those health is determined by the soil microbiome. I strongly
work we are doing on regenerative agriculture and forest changes include increased global heating, droughts, support the move away from soluble fertilizers, tillage,
restoration. It also helps strengthen our business, by storms, fires and floods, events that challenge farm- pesticides and fungicides. It will take time for farmers
making it more resilient. ers throughout the world and Nestlé’s supply chain. to change their practices, and for the soil ecosystem
Underlying and informing the partnership between to be an increased source of vibrancy, nutrient den-
Regenerative agriculture: the CSV Council and Nestlé is the commitment to sity, minerals, water and resiliency. That is a goal that
integrating nature-based solutions improving human well-being on our less stable planet. the CSV Council advocates and supports at Nestlé.
Agriculture can play a unique role in delivering emissions Nestlé must ensure that its supply chain produces Paul Hawken, Founder of Project Regeneration and Project
reductions and addressing nature loss. Our global pop- enough ingredients in the right places and grown the Drawdown Member of Nestlé Creating Shared Value Council
ulation could reach 10 billion by 2050. Food production right way. This requires an emphasis on soil health,
already accounts for up to a third of GHG emissions resilient food systems, human rights and personal
according to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization. well-being. The CSV Council is highly supportive of
So, the world’s food and farming system must be trans- the large-scale implementation of regenerative agri-
formed if it is to sustainably feed our growing commu- culture in many, if not all, the countries in which Nestlé
nities within planetary boundaries. At Nestlé we believe sources from. I believe that health below the ground
that contributing to that transformation, helping to make determines the quality of food above the ground.
it faster and more efficient, will generate both short- and Indeed, I believe that the emphasis on building soil
long-term returns for our shareholders because the food health is directly related to nurturing children’s health.
industry will benefit from a more equitable food system
that works better than it does today. As increasing temperatures and volatile weather pat-
terns continue to increase in number and impact,
Around 90% of the world’s food comes from farms. regenerative farming practices are ever more crucial.
Climate change can affect the quality and availability Weather patterns that challenge agriculture today will
of what the agricultural sector produces, so helping continue to worsen in unpredictable ways over time.
address the effects of a warming planet is strategically Implementing regenerative agriculture benefits the
important to us as a business. To achieve this, it is vital company, the environment and customers in myriad
that we create value for those working to supply us with ways. Healthy soil holds more water and does not
ingredients. We are focused on enhancing traceability, easily erode. The issue of water is becoming para-
enabling us to get better data about where our ingre- mount worldwide, and water leaving farms must not
dients come from, which will allow us to measure and
26 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
demonstrate the GHG reductions across the supply
chain, as well as other benefits. KEY EXPECTED BENEFITS OF REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE APPROACHES
Regenerative agriculture interventions can deliver multiple benefits.
We champion adaptation and mitigation approaches,
supporting our partners to manage the risks and vulner-
abilities they face due to climate change, nature loss and
extreme weather events. This has the expected benefits
of building resilience in the food system to adapt to a
warming climate in the medium-term, while reducing
emissions to mitigate climate change in the long-term.
With less than 5% of farmers worldwide under 35, jobs
in agriculture are attracting fewer young people at a time
when the world’s population is rapidly growing. We’re
helping to inspire, train and enable the next generation
of ‘agripreneurs’– to give them the knowledge, skills and
entrepreneurial spirit they need to develop and manage
productive farms in the 21st century.
Providing long-term support for farmers
Our aim is to make regenerative agriculture practices
the standard in the food industry – addressing environ-
mental and social aspects holistically. Reforming the way
the world grows food will take time. That’s why we’re * Excerpt from The Nestlé Agriculture Framework.
investing heavily in supporting agricultural communities
for the long term. The aim of our Good for the Planet
strategy, to advance regenerative food systems at scale,
is brought to life through our promotion of regenerative
agricultural practices. We work closely with suppliers
and farmers to encourage them to take up these ways 50% by 2030. By the end of 2024, we were sourcing to drive shared value creation through the mitigation of
of working, which is also expected to help us reach net 21.3% – surpassing our 2025 ambition one year early. emissions and regenerative agricultural practices aimed
zero and deliver benefits to nature and communities. at enhancing the resilience of our supply chains, ingre-
To support this ambition, our Institute of Agricultural dient quality and yields, along with farmers’ revenue.
By 2025, we aim to source at least 20% of our key ingre- Sciences focuses on the development, testing and valida- These learnings are operationalized through The Nestlé
dients – such as coffee and cocoa – from farmers that tion of science-based, farm-level solutions. The Institute Agriculture Framework, which sets out the strategies
have adopted regenerative agricultural practices – and works with research, industry and civil society partners we have developed to provide support for suppliers
27 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
and farmers. It encourages them to adopt regenerative
agricultural practices that make sense locally. These REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE BOOSTS SOIL HEALTH TO DELIVER QUALITY CROPS
might include planting a more diverse range of crops on
by Kent Karnemaat, grower supplying Gerber, based in Fremont, Michigan, USA
farms and implementing precision farming techniques
to reduce the use of fossil fuel-based fertilizers and pes- Our family farm has been sup-
ticides. The framework also covers water stewardship plying vegetables to Nestlé’s
and environmental stewardship. babyfood company Gerber for
more than 50 years. We’ve seen
Helping farmers create healthier soils first-hand how using regenerative
agriculture practices can benefit
At the heart of our approach is helping farmers to improve our farm. It has transformed the
soil health. Healthier soils have a greater ability to absorb way we manage our land.
and store carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, because
they have higher levels of organic matter than degraded “The direct relationships we have with growers
soils. In addition, soil with higher levels of organic mat- like Kent are helping our Gerber farmers
ter can retain water more effectively. By holding on to lead in the adoption of regenerative agriculture
water, soil can provide a buffer against the impacts of practices and producing quality crops.”
hotter weather or drought, contributing to the resilience
Chris Falak, Category Manager and Agriculture Field
of the farm. Representative, Gerber Products Company
There is a greater understanding today of the need to go By introducing practices such as using cover crops
beyond farm boundaries and to work at a landscape level and finding ways to minimize our use of synthetic
to protect and restore natural environments. Adopting inputs, we’ve lowered our production costs, increased
common approaches involving as many players as pos- our efficiency, and built richer, more fertile soil. Our
sible within a landscape is key to scaling up more quickly standards for soil quality are high. The Gerber team
and effectively. For example, protecting genetic diversity helps us manage levels of nitrates, limit the uptake
can help crops become more resilient. of heavy metals in line with federal regulations, and
rigorously test to help ensure the best soil for growing
One of the levers of our Net Zero Roadmap is on safe, nutritious crops for baby food.
Kent Karnemaat, co-owner of Karnemaat Farms,
nature-based solutions to both reduce our emissions and
walks with freshly picked carrots harvested for Gerber
help safeguard nature. Several hundred Nestlé agrono- I’m a fourth-generation grower – the benefits we’ve at Karnemaat Farms in Fremont.
mists help and guide the farmers who supply us to find experienced from regenerative agriculture practices
ways to reduce their reliance on chemical fertilizers and keep us innovating, so we can enhance soil health and
pesticides. This can improve the economic resilience deliver high-quality crops, now and for years to come.
of their farms, as the prices of these chemicals can be
subject to some volatility. This is how we are creating
shared value across the value chain, strengthening the
28 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
economic resilience of the farms who supply Nestlé, Through regenerative
agriculture practices, farmers
and thereby helping to ensure they can supply us with
are revitalizing their land,
high-quality raw materials today and in years to come. diversifying crops, improving
yields and creating a lasting
legacy for the next generation.
We run training programs for farmers and suppliers of
the ingredients we source – from cereals to dairy – to roll
out the latest techniques, and we pilot new practices
and technologies to track improvements in performance.
For example, we use the Cool Farm Tool, which enables
farmers to calculate their GHG emissions and then identify
how and where they can reduce their carbon footprint. We
also supported the creation of the Sustainable Agriculture
Initiative (SAI) Platform’s Regenerating Together tool,
which we are trialling. This is part of the collective effort
needed to define a robust and harmonized framework
to help measure progress in scaling up regenerative
agriculture across the industry.
We understand that shifting from traditional practices
to new ways of farming can be difficult, which is why
we follow a holistic approach that includes finance and
incentives, training, and creating market demand for
ingredients grown on farms that have adopted regen-
erative agriculture practices. This is especially important doing so support efforts to ensure there is a sustainable the benefits to the environment and to the people who
for smallholder farmers who may not have the financial supply of the raw ingredients we rely on for our business. live and work in and around them. Nestlé also benefits
resources to make these investments. We cannot do this Forests are home to a diverse array of plant and animal when we strengthen the natural ecosystems we depend
alone. We need policymakers to work with the private species. Addressing deforestation helps preserve crit- on and build stronger relationships with the suppliers
sector to build strong ecosystems to encourage the ical habitats, protect biodiversity and prevent the loss operating in these areas. This is because it leads to
adoption of regenerative approaches. of species that are essential to healthy ecosystems. sourcing practices which support our carbon reduction
Forests help regulate water cycles, prevent soil erosion and removal efforts.
Forest preservation: sustaining natural ecosystems, and maintain air quality. They play a role in regulating
strengthening business local and regional climates, influencing temperature, Our Responsible Sourcing Core Requirements make
humidity and patterns of precipitation. They are also clear there should be no expansion of or production on
Our sphere of influence extends beyond the farms that tremendous carbon sinks. areas converted from natural forests and other natural
supply us with raw ingredients. Supporting biodiversity, ecosystems after December 31, 2020.
restoring habitats and enhancing natural ecosystems Protecting forests helps to ensure the continued pro-
should help make our value chain more resilient and in vision of these vital services, providing value through
29 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
For many years, we have been addressing deforestation primary supply chains for meat, palm oil, pulp and paper,
and promoting responsible forest stewardship within soy, sugar, cocoa and coffee are assessed deforesta- TAKING CLIMATE ACTION TO HELP PROTECT
our value chain, helping to safeguard and restore forests tion-free. At the end of last year, the figure was 93.5%. To AND RESTORE COMMUNITY FORESTS
and peatlands that also function as carbon sinks. achieve and maintain a deforestation-free supply chain
by Remi van Balen, Agroforestry and Environment
of key ingredients, it is important to achieve traceability Program Manager, Beyond Beans
We work with local communities and Indigenous Peoples within our supply chain. We use farm assessments, cer-
in our critical sourcing regions because they can be the tification and satellite monitoring to assess our progress.
best stewards of forests. We have implemented long-term
forest conservation and restoration projects within our Currently, we support 16 different landscape initiatives
supply chain, which promote sustainable livelihoods in covering palm oil, pulp and paper, soy, cocoa and wheat.
forest areas, respecting the rights of local people. These are collaborative efforts to help tackle the drivers
of deforestation, promote reforestation and implement
The strategy prioritizes commodities where in the past sustainable land management across entire landscapes,
there has been a higher risk of deforestation. We continue rather than focusing on individual sites or isolated activi- Community forests are small but vital patches
to make significant progress toward our aim that our ties. These landscape initiatives are targeting conservation of land, often ranging from two to ten hectares.
Steeped in local culture and rich in biodiversity, they
act as important carbon sinks. Yet, unlike larger
forests, they are usually unprotected, leaving them
at risk of being logged, exploited and lost forever.
Across Côte d’Ivoire, together with Nestlé, we’re
not just helping to protect community forests,
we’re restoring what used to be vital ecosystems
with innovative approaches to sequester carbon.
We help put together management committees,
and work closely with local chiefs and forest
authorities to plant boundary trees. Using local
tree species, we’re creating clear boundaries that
signal the forests are not to be exploited.
All of this impacts the local micro-climate, which
has a range of benefits – from reducing heat and
maintaining ground moisture to protecting crops
and boosting biodiversity. By engaging local nurs-
eries to supply saplings, financial benefits are
Farmers Supardi and Zamzuri
being channelled directly into the community too.
plant coffee seedlings that will
be harvested next season.
30 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
and restoration of key natural ecosystems, supporting
the people in these landscapes to secure their liveli- HELPING TO RESTORE MARINE HABITATS TO PROTECT FUTURE FISH POPULATIONS
hoods, tenure or wider social benefits. You can read
by Professor Laura Govers, Associate Professor, Marine Conservation Ecology, University of Groningen
more about the impact of this work with communities
in the next chapter. The ocean is so important, providing food and liveli- An important focus has been on restoring seagrass
hoods to billions of people across the world. That’s why meadows. Since the mid-1 700s, the global coverage
Promoting water sustainability we’re excited about Nestlé Purina PetCare Europe’s of seagrasses has decreased by 29%. Seagrass cap-
in and around our operations Ocean Restoration Program, which was launched to tures carbon 35 times more efficiently than tropical
help protect the health of marine habitats critical to rainforests, while providing habitat, food and nursery
Nature-based solutions to tackle the water challenge fish populations. grounds for many marine species, stabilising coastal
are win-win, bringing multiple benefits for biodiversity sediments and improving water quality.
and climate resilience. Healthy water ecosystems are “By 2030, our program aims to restore 1 500
essential for sustaining biodiversity and ensuring access hectares of marine habitats in European waters Purina Europe is partnering with the Sea Ranger
to clean water for drinking and sanitation. In many parts where we source fish ingredients; this includes Service – one of the founding members of The
of the world, human and ecological demands for fresh restoring sea grass meadows, kelp forests and Seagrass Consortium alongside the University of
water remain unmet, with over two billion people lacking oyster reefs.” Groningen – to accelerate seagrass restoration at scale
adequate supplies for health, hygiene and crop cultivation. across Europe. We have identified sites in France
Lisa Boulton, Ocean Regeneration Lead,
Nestlé Purina PetCare Europe and the Netherlands, and we are already hard at
For Nestlé, water is vital for our product manufacturing, work in trialling innovative approaches to seagrass
factory operations and crop cultivation. Water stewardship restoration. The program is also providing paid jobs
is paramount to safeguarding our ingredient supply and to young people in European coastal areas.
supporting the well-being of the communities we serve.
This partnership gives us, as scientists, the opportunity
Our primary focus is on reducing water usage in to think big and have a bigger impact. We can scale
water-stressed areas across our business. We are com- up the deployment of successful solutions, sharing
mitted to supporting farmers in implementing water-re- our learnings across communities that depend on
duction solutions for land management and expanding the sea for their livelihoods.
access to clean water in communities. Last year, we
reduced 2.72 million tonnes of water in our facilities, By integrating scientific research and scalable solu-
building on incremental efforts over the last decade. tions, together we can help revive our oceans, help
fish populations recover, and create lasting environ-
Our efforts extend beyond our factories and facilities to mental and economic benefits.
encompass the watersheds within our supply chain. We
use different tools, such as World Resources Institute
(WRI)’s Aqueduct, to assess present and future water
Alongside seagrass meadow restoration, Purina
risk in our supply chain, including assessing future water Europe is also working on restoring lost kelp forests.
trends and risks. By tracking the water footprint of key
31 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
agricultural commodities, such as coffee, cocoa and Our chairman, Paul Bulcke is co-chair of the Governing Packaging: progressing
dairy, we identify opportunities to enhance water man- Council of the 2030 Water Resources Group (WRG). WRG on our circular economy journey
agement practices and promote regenerative agricul- works with governments, corporations and civil society to
tural techniques. The Nestlé Responsible Sourcing Core address water risks affecting food, cities and ecosystems. We recognize that the packaging we use to protect our
Requirements set out mandatory best practices on water By offering strategic insights, fostering collaboration food and beverage products ensures their quality and
use and management for our suppliers. and securing financing, they help scale solutions that prevents food waste. It can also have an impact on the
deliver lasting impact. WRG is a public-private collabo- environment. Our vision is clear: none of Nestlé’s pack-
In many countries, improving access to safe water, ration platform that is funded by partner contributions aging, whether it is plastic or otherwise, should end up
sanitation and hygiene (WASH) is critical. We respect and operates as a multi-donor trust fund managed by in landfill or as litter. So, we prioritize reducing waste,
and promote the right to water and sanitation, closely the World Bank’s Global Department for Water. Nestlé recovering packaging materials for reuse, increasing
monitoring our water use and the quality of water dis- was one of the founding partners of the organization. recycling and finding suitable alternatives to plastic.
charged from our sites to safeguard local water resources.
Recycling and reusing water wherever feasible is a priority We help create value for Nestlé and for the communities We have identified five pillars of activity to make our
across our different sites, each of which has unique where we operate by conducting research to quantify the packaging more sustainable (see illustration below).
water requirements. We also require our suppliers to water benefits that can be achieved through regenerative
provide access to WASH to workers and communities agriculture and agroforestry. We are supporting efforts Nestlé is reducing our use of virgin plastic for packaging,
within our value chain. to develop a standardized methodology for implement- ensuring that as much packaging as possible is designed
ing and validating water stewardship activities. As we for recycling or reuse and promoting responsible waste
We have committed to helping create a positive water learn more, we will share our findings with others to management practices. We are pioneering the use of
impact everywhere that our retail water business help promote the implementation of what we discover. alternatives to plastic, novel technologies and innovative
Nestlé Waters operates. More than 70 projects – either It is important that we keep collaborating to find more solutions to redesign our packaging. The Nestlé Institute
nature-based or technical – are already realized or under- effective solutions to address the different challenges of Packaging Sciences aims to balance performance and
way with local partners. These include reforestation proj- of water stewardship. cost as it develops new materials and formats, reducing
ects, wetlands or river restoration, rainwater harvesting,
drip irrigation and water infrastructure improvement.
We are also committed to certifying our Nestlé Waters THE 5 PILLARS OF OUR PACKAGING STRATEGY
sites to the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS)
Standard. This gives us a comprehensive framework
to analyse local water challenges and to address these
together with local water users to manage water sustain-
ably within a catchment area. The certification process
is rigorous and provides third-party verification for our
water stewardship work.
32 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
environmental impacts while maintaining the barrier qual-
ities of new packaging to ensure food and beverages are DEVELOPING LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE TO ENABLE COMPOSTING
protected. Innovations being explored include high-per-
by Marina Sierra de Camargo, Founder and CEO, Planta Feliz, São Paulo, Brazil
forming paper barriers that could replace flexible plastics
for some food types, as well as solutions to integrate The launch of Nestlé Dolce Gusto NEO compostable
more recycled content and to move from multi-material, coffee pods in Brazil marked a step forward in encour-
to mono-material, which is easier to recycle. aging composting – an innovation to support changing
consumer habits and provide alternative disposal
Our efforts extend to increasing recycled content. Many of options for consumers.
our brands now feature an increased amount of recycled
polyethylene (PET) in their packaging. We strive to make To make composting easier, Nestlé has partnered
packaging more lightweight, which not only reduces with local companies to collect the used pods from
material use but also its environmental impact. We con- their homes and compost them on an industrial
tinue to phase out packaging items that are difficult to scale.
recycle. We are testing and scaling reusable packaging
where it makes economic and environmental sense but Once collected, the NEO pods are mixed with other
acknowledge that there is yet to be widespread con- organic materials and enter our thermophilic com-
sumer acceptance of such options. We know there are posting process at our plant in São Paulo, where they
Adriano Sgarbi and Marina Sierra de Camargo,
expectations for manufacturers to develop options for break down within 45 days. Yes, we are dealing with
owners of the Planta Feliz Composting Center.
packaging that go beyond single-use, and this is one waste, but the process also produces high-quality
of our focus areas. fertilizer that is used to improve soil health which
in turn aids carbon sequestration. The fertilizer
Advocacy: helping to drive is sold via our website, in gardening stores or to
change and collective action local non-profit organizations that support organic Partnership is at the heart of this initiative. With
agriculture. support from Nestlé, we’ve turned our composting
While we continue to make strong progress in areas facility into an educational hub, helping consumers
where we have direct influence, addressing the environ- Our facility can handle up to 272 tonnes of waste per understand the impact of proper waste disposal and
mental impact of packaging waste remains a challenge month, and we aim to scale further as awareness the broader benefits of composting. Through edu-
that requires collective action. Stopping the leakage of around composting grows. cational campaigns and programs like Composting
mismanaged plastic packaging waste into the natural Week, we’re creating long-term value for the local
environment or landfills requires the improvement of What sets us apart is our ability to operate decen- community by promoting awareness and access to
waste management infrastructure. There are varying tralized composting facilities in urban areas without services.
requirements in different countries. Nestlé is making negatively impacting local communities in terms of
a contribution to managing plastic packaging at the noise and odour that is often associated with waste
end of its useful life, collaborating with a wide range plants. We’re acting as a pioneer in São Paulo, where
of stakeholders from the public and private sectors to our efforts complement public sector initiatives.
achieve these ends.
33 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
In the packaging sustainability space, we advocate Workers in a collection and
sorting waste management
for meaningful regulatory developments, support the
site in Skardu, Pakistan,
process to agree a UN Plastics Treaty and well-drafted part of Nestlé’s Zero Impact
legislation to deliver Extended Producer Responsibility program in partnership with the
Gilgit-Baltistan government.
legislation, and welcome recent regulatory developments
that promote the design and recyclability of packaging.
Helping to drive positive change and collective action
in the environment involves advocating for regenerative
agriculture, climate solutions and forest preservation,
and we will continue to innovate, scale up solutions
and collaborate with like-minded partners to multiply
our impact.
As with the broader climate challenge, protecting nature
and restoring ecosystems is not something that can be
done in a silo by any one company or actor in the supply
chain. It is a challenge that requires us to work together
on solutions across multiple landscapes to provide value
and benefit for everyone. We welcome others to partner
with us to scale up solutions and increase our impact.
To succeed in any of the areas covered in this chapter,
we need to work together across the value chain, and
we are dedicated to advancing a climate-resilient regen-
erative food system that can effectively feed the global
population and promotes the principles of circularity to
help manage waste. The risks and costs of not doing
enough will be significant.
34 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
NESTLÉ’S DAIRY CLIMATE PLAN
by Florence Henry, Global Head of Sustainability,
Nutrition Business, Nestlé
Milk is an essential source of nutrition and livelihood for
many farming families around the world. Dairy ingredients
are widely used across our portfolio and are our largest
source of GHG emissions. We’ve created a dedicated
Dairy Climate Plan, as a part of our Net Zero Roadmap,
to reduce our dairy-related emissions.
Working with more than 200 suppliers across 27 different
countries, the plan aims to reduce the main sources of GHG
emissions at farm level: feed production, enteric methane
and manure. Since each of our dairy farmers is unique,
there is no single solution that can be applied across the
dairy industry; we need to take a f armer-centric approach.
Our plan includes five large-scale strategic initiatives:
farmer engagement, low-carbon feed acceleration,
At Skimmelkrans farm in South Africa, the farm employs
manure management, digitalization and co-financing.
regenerative practices such as soil fertility management.
The plan is supported by the Nestlé Institute of Agricultural
Sciences and other external partnerships to help identify
new, scientifically proven solutions which can help further
accelerate the decarbonization of dairy in the future.
THE 5 PILLARS OF OUR DAIRY CLIMATE STRATEGY
35 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
EMPOWERING DAIRY FARMERS FOR
CLIMATE ACTION IN CHINA
by Liu Jianguo, Farm Management and Production Assessment
System Manager of the Nestlé Qingdao Factory
In China, we’re pioneering innovative solutions to improve
animal productivity and efficiency via feed solutions such
as precision feeding and optimized feed formula and
manure management. The goal is to cut the associ-
ated GHGs, including methane, produced by livestock.
Through the Nestlé Dairy Farming Institute in Greater
China, we offer facilities to showcase sustainable, prof-
itable agriculture, regenerative agricultural techniques
and their corresponding emissions reductions.
Working with 36 farms across the country, we’ve intro-
duced manure separators, a relatively simple but highly
effective technology that separates solid from liquid
manure. It is a process that allows farms to manage
manure more efficiently and reduce methane.
We’ve also structured the financing in a novel way, with
Nestlé, farmers and farm equipment suppliers each
sharing a third of the cost of the separators. It is a part-
nership that not only minimizes costs but also ensures
that the farms benefit from the byproducts. The solid
manure can be used as fertilizer, creating an additional
Through innovative solutions like manure separators and precision
revenue stream.
feeding, farmers are cutting greenhouse gas emissions, improving
productivity and creating additional revenue streams from organic
fertilizer sales. Zhang Bo shovels organic fertilizer at a dairy farm in
We’re not just focusing on a single technology or pro-
Qingdao, China.
cess. We’re prioritizing scalable solutions and creating a
comprehensive ecosystem that brings together farmers,
suppliers and cutting-edge technologies. This allows us
to scale faster and more sustainably than many of our
peers, driving change from the ground up.
36 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
People in Communities
37 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Our progress at a glance*
123 953 households covered by the Child Labor 88.9%cocoa sourced through 10.2million young
Monitoring and Remediation System (CLMRS) Nestlé Cocoa Plan people supported
to prevent and address child labor risks (since 2017)
96 580 children have received support By end of 2025, we aim
through prevention and remediation actions for 100% of cocoa to By 2030, we aim to help
as part of the CLMRS be sourced through the 10 million young people
Nestlé Cocoa Plan around the world have access
to economic opportunities
26 857 children reported no longer engaging in
through the Nestlé Needs
potentially hazardous activities as part of the CLMRS
YOUth Initiative
100%
93.0% of coffee supplies
responsibly sourced
44.5%
(excluding Nespresso)
50% responsibly sourced
88.9%
of cocoa covered by the CLMRS or other dedicated 91.4%
due diligence systems, including mass balance
0%
2024 2030
of Nespresso coffee sourced
By 2030, we aim for 100% of key ingredient through the Nespresso AAA
* For information on our progress, see our
Non-Financial Statement 2024. volumes to be responsibly sourced Sustainable Quality™ Program
38 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Nestlé believes that being firmly We aim to reward farmers not only for the quality of their
ingredients, but for positive environmental and social
rooted in the communities around
impacts. This reflects our belief that improved incomes
our factories and workplaces is are essential to gaining farmer buy-in as we strive to
reach net zero and reduce human rights risks.
essential for fostering mutual
growth and trust. By actively en-
Farming small pockets of land or having limited income
gaging with local communities, we sources means that not every farmer may reach a living
income. However, by supporting smallholder farmers to
can better understand their needs
reach their full income-earning potential, we can enable
and contribute to their well-being meaningful changes in their lives and better farming
practices. In the years ahead, we aim for a living income
through various initiatives such
to become a measure of development across more com-
as disaster relief, food access and modities, in order to ensure no one is left behind as
Tino Juliandi, a member of the Youth Coffee Farmer Association.
the agricultural sector continues to develop and evolve.
measures to enhance community He and his fellow members are trained to apply organic fertilizer
on coffee plantations sustainably.
life. This approach not only helps
For example, we have successfully completed the ’test
us build lasting and meaningful at scale’ phase for our income accelerator program for
For almost 160 years, Nestlé has supported people who cocoa-farming families in West Africa. This program
relationships but also aligns with
live and work in the communities where we operate. We aims to improve their livelihoods, rewarding them not
our approach of Creating Shared strive to create value that can be shared across commu- just for the quantity and quality of their cocoa beans,
nities, working toward a future where everyone in our but also for practices that benefit the environment and
Value. This strong connection
supply chain can achieve a sustainable livelihood. We the local community.
with the communities where we can only secure a sustainable supply of raw materials
if we have the support of all those in the supply chain, This builds on the work we have been doing for more
operate ensures that we remain
from farmers and workers to the community at large, than a decade through the Nestlé Cocoa Plan. What we
a trusted partner and a good
and we strive to win their trust through inclusive and have learned through this program informs our current
neighbor, ultimately benefiting equitable practices. approach, focusing on initiatives already proven to posi-
tively impact farming families and reduce child labor risks.
both Nestlé and the communities
We support all farmers, from smallholders to those
we serve. with medium or large operations. We believe farmers We have also been invested in supporting livelihoods of
are more likely to embrace innovation when they earn coffee farming communities through the Nescafé Plan
a decent income. As incomes rise, farmers become 2030 and Nespresso AAA Sustainable Quality™ Program
more able to invest in maintaining regenerative practices while facilitating a just transition to regenerative agri-
independently, reinforcing long-term sustainability and culture. These initiatives have empowered farmers with
increasing the likelihood of maintaining the family farm knowledge and resources, enabling them to implement
now and in the future. regenerative agricultural practices and improve their
39 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
land, deforestation, land rights for Indigenous People and
unfair labor practices, to name a few, are often systemic
and require collective action to tackle their root causes.
There are growing expectations for companies to imple-
ment robust due diligence processes to assess, address
and report on their actual or potential impacts on human
rights and the environment. Recent regulation in Europe
and other jurisdictions is creating a solid framework of
rules for us to work with.
Increasingly, consumers want to know more about where
their food comes from. They want more information about
the raw ingredients which have gone into their food and
a better understanding of how the products have been
produced. This includes improving the traceability of
In Lampung province,
our ingredients and helping to address a range of social
Indonesia, Agus, a coffee
farmer checks his crop and environmental challenges affecting our agricultural
as he waits to greet his
supply chains through long-term, tailored interventions
daughter coming home
from school. on farms, plantations and fishing vessels, for example.
Rarely are these quick fixes. Most require long-term,
tailored interventions.
Responsible sourcing helps us preserve natural resources
and safeguard the environment for generations to come.
It is how we empower our suppliers and their local com-
munities, supporting them to improve their conditions
so we can ensure a sustainable supply of ingredients for
livelihoods. These programs focus on training and techni- building schools and healthcare facilities, supports the Nestlé over the long-term. Without healthy and resilient
cal assistance to improve coffee quality, farm productivity well-being of coffee farming communities we work with. supply chains, we will not have a business.
and preservation of natural ecosystems. By distributing
improved coffee plantlets that are more resistant to dis- Responsible sourcing: Our size and scale mean we can drive significant positive
ease and adverse weather conditions under the Nescafé creating value for all value chain actors impact. Nestlé buys more coffee than any other company
Plan 2030, paying premiums for AAA-certified coffee in the world. We are in the top five purchasers of cocoa.
and providing other financial services, farmers become Globally, there are still many challenges in raw material We source fresh milk from 25 countries, with nearly four
more resilient and able to invest in their farms. Improving agricultural supply chains, and Nestlé acting alone cannot thousand collection centers offering chilling facilities.
infrastructure and supporting development projects, like address all of them. Issues such as inappropriate use of
40 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
By the end of 2025, we aim to achieve 100% cocoa
RESPONSIBLY SOURCED INGREDIENTS: sourced through the Nestlé Cocoa Plan and 100% AFFORDABLE CROP INSURANCE
HOW WE ASSESS SOY responsibly sourced coffee. Furthermore, we target to GIVES COFFEE FARMERS PROTECTION
have 100% of the 14 key ingredient volumes responsibly
by Julie Reneau, Nespresso Head of Coffee Sustainability
sourced by 2030. Currently, we have achieved 44.5% of and Regenerative Agriculture
key ingredients responsibly sourced.
Smallholder coffee farm-
We are making progress through systematically putting ers are directly affected
our Responsible Sourcing Core Requirements into effect. by extreme weather.
This includes working with our suppliers and supporting Periods of droughts or
them in their compliance journey. Our requirements heavy rainfall can impact
address human rights, environmental due diligence, their crops, harvest and
business ethics, compliance, transparency, labor stan- overall production yield.
dards, environmental conservation and more. They are However, thanks to an
designed to encourage a dynamic transformation of innovative crop insurance
sourcing activities, emphasizing the importance of trans- scheme – the result of a collaboration between
parency and continuous improvement in operations Nespresso, Fairtrade International and, in some
and practices. countries, Blue Marble Microinsurance – farms
and their families are better protected.
Our Responsible Sourcing Core Requirements are an
integral part of our contract with suppliers, and we require Unlike traditional insurance programs, it’s an
them to cascade the ways of working down to the next affordable solution, tailored to the specific risks
tiers of the supply chain. Having a Human Rights and farmers face. The program uses satellite tech-
Environmental Due Diligence (HREDD) system in place nology to track weather and trigger payouts in
is something we expect of all our direct suppliers. case of extreme rainfall or drought in a timely
manner – directly to registered coffee growers in
* Risk is defined by prominence of environmental or social
Ensuring compliance with our standards the impacted hectares.
issues (e.g. deforestation, poor labor practices and/or land
rights issues) in that country for that ingredient.
To make sure our suppliers are compliant, we use different We’re now expanding into more countries, includ-
verification methods at different tiers of the supply chain. ing Peru and Kenya. Having this safety net protects
These include self-declaration, desk-based assessments, farmers, enables them to reinvest in their farms,
Almost all our sourcing of raw materials (95%) comes and second- or third-party site audits. The tools used and gives them confidence to continue growing
from 14 key ingredients: coffee, cocoa, palm oil, dairy, to assess compliance depend on the supply chain tier, coffee for Nespresso. We hope that, as a result, the
soy, sugar, cereals and grains, hazelnuts, meat / poultry and the level of risk. next generation of farming families will be more
/ eggs, fish and seafood, vegetables, spices, pulp and likely to take up coffee farming, providing us with
paper, and coconut. These supply chains are where we a sustainable supply of coffee for years to come.
have the greatest opportunity for positive impact.
41 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Risk is assessed taking into consideration different cri- In the farming community of
Tanggamus Regency in the
teria, such as the country of operation and of origin for
Lampung region of Indonesia,
materials and ingredients, the level of spending, and the Tri welcomes her two children
type of goods or service supplied to Nestlé. home from school.
We also look at whether the source of the raw mate-
rial or ingredients has been assessed by a certification
scheme, such as Rainforest Alliance. We consider whether
it is included in an industry scheme such as the Farm
Sustainability Assessment by the SAI Platform. We can
also explore whether the ingredient is part of a landscape
project. These are projects that go beyond the boundaries
of the farm we source from, engaging other actors in
the community, including peer companies. A landscape
approach involves taking a common approach to tackling
issues such as deforestation, water use and steward-
ship or human rights concerns. We use our leverage to
collaborate and actively support collective engagement,
helping to address widespread, systemic environmental
and social issues.
The Responsible Sourcing Core Requirements is only part
of the solution. Investment in broader and deeper impact
programs which focus on issues such as forced labour,
land rights, regenerative agriculture and living income – as
well as on measuring outcomes and impacts – is also
necessary to achieve more substantial changes in envi- We aim for increased transparency, collaborative action transformation to more regenerative food systems. Fair
ronmental and social conditions. and a level playing field, which supports our business livelihoods and dignified work for people across the food
in the communities where we operate. value chain are crucial if we want to make regenerative
Collective action and collaboration are crucial to address- food systems work. Investment in these efforts makes
ing the root causes of such issues. We are using our voice Human rights: building fair livelihoods our business more resilient by making our supply chain
to actively participate in developing new and improved and resilient communities stronger and more sustainable, and by reducing risk.
industry-wide standards and methodologies that will
help us create a more significant impact, especially in Respecting and promoting human rights is critical to our Unfortunately, human rights issues such as child labor and
shared supply chains. We advocate for harmonized and business strategy. Through being fair and inclusive to access to education, poor working conditions and forced
proportionate rules that promote respect for human rights everyone concerned and creating decent work oppor- labor are found all over the world. In 2024, we actively
and the environment in business activities. tunities, we aim to ensure no one is left behind in the participated in the Child Labor in Cocoa Coordinating
42 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Group, and supported the creation of a Framework of each human rights-related issue identified as salient, materials to select which countries to assess, which
Action signed between the World Cocoa Foundation and defining what is needed across our value chain and what business activities, suppliers and raw materials to focus
the governments of Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and the United collective action can be taken. These plans have been on, and how to support local teams. Right now, the
States. The aim of the signatories is to work together to published, and we will begin reporting on progress next biggest human rights risks lie in our upstream supply
coordinate and accelerate actions to contribute to the year. Each salient issue is managed at the global level and chain, particularly in coffee, cocoa, sugar and palm oil.
prevention and progressive elimination of child labor in addressed through dedicated actions implemented locally
cocoa-growing communities. This builds on the work we across Nestlé’s operations and supply chain worldwide. The action plans help us ensure our activities, programs
have done on our income accelerator program and the and interventions are consistent and effective across
other work carried out as part of the Nestlé Cocoa Plan. Preventing abuses of human rights starts with under- different regions and parts of the value chain. Within
standing the nature and scale of risks. We use global our own operations, we use an auditing process to ver-
Our business is founded on respect – for those who work datasets and insights from stakeholders on specific raw ify that all our employees and sites comply with local
for us, for those we work with, and for those we encounter
in bringing our products to market. This includes Nestlé
employees and on-site contractors, the farmers and
workers in our supply chains, the communities living in
and around our operations and supply chain, and our
consumers. We are committed to respecting and advanc-
ing human rights in our operations and supply chains,
using our size and our scale to raise awareness, build
capacity among our colleagues and business partners,
and empower communities and individuals.
Human Rights Salient Issue Action Plans
We have embedded human rights in our company struc-
tures and in our policies to ensure that d ecision-making
considers the human rights implications. We were early
adopters of the United Nations Guiding Principles on
Business and Human Rights which has guided much
of our work in this area.
Our Human Rights Policy is operationalized through
our Human Rights, Framework and Roadmap, which
In Cairo, Egypt, our voluntary
aim to enhance our positive impact on the ground, with
waste collection partnership
due diligence at the heart of our approach. Ten Human established an afterschool
program, providing sports
Rights Salient Issue Action Plans articulate the strategy
coaching and care for the
for assessing, addressing, monitoring and reporting on workers’ children.
43 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
legislation, our Corporate Business Principles and our In Vila Velha, Brazil,
our Garoto factory has
Code of Business Conduct. For example, since 2013,
had the position of
Nestlé has been implementing a Living Wage Program Sign Language Interpreter
to ensure that all our employees, including those on since 2005 to support
employees with hearing
temporary contracts, earn a living wage.
impairment. By working
with an on-site translator
and partnering with a
We continuously enhance our due diligence systems to
translation company, all
strengthen and protect our business and make it more internal communications
resilient. It is important that the subject of human rights include sign language,
all employees with
moves from being solely about risk to an approach that
hearing impairment
highlights the positive impacts of interventions, such as receive special training
and all other employees
improving access to education, better pay and responsible
are encouraged to learn
recruitment. Collaboration across different parts of our sign language, as well.
business, supply chains, markets and stakeholders is
essential. Systemwide change requires holistic strategies
and information sharing to address both human rights
and environmental concerns.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I):
building a stronger business
We believe that when people are treated fairly, trusted
to deliver, and feel that they belong in the workplace,
they do their jobs better. We see diversity as a strength.
We aim to create a working environment where every-
body is respected for who they are regardless of gender, box thinking. Having people from diverse backgrounds, on unconscious bias and sexual harassment prevention
ethnicity, sexuality, disability or other characteristics or cultures and ethnicities, of all ages and experiences, has been an important part of this progress.
backgrounds. We want all our people to have the same enables us to better understand the reality of the world
access to opportunities in a workplace that recognizes in which we operate. Nestlé’s DE&I strategy focuses on four pillars: gender bal-
the unique needs and experiences they have, and the ance, LGBTQI+ inclusion, race and ethnicity, and disability.
contribution they can make to Nestlé’s success. Our Our ability to attract, develop and retain a diverse range of This is supported by an action plan where we assess,
approach should always be fair, inclusive and without skilled people is critical to being competitive and growing address and report on potential risks and opportunities.
prejudice. our business. We are building (within the legal parameters Operating within the global framework, local teams are
of the countries where we operate) a gender-balanced encouraged to adapt their plans to local circumstances,
If we are to continue to meet the evolving expectations of workforce at all levels, including management. We have as the issues and challenges their employees might face
consumers, our teams must be innovative and challenge made strong progress, reaching 47.4% women in man- will vary from country to country. As a minimum, we
the status quo. Innovation thrives on diverse, out-of-the agement positions. Mandatory training for all employees comply with all local legal and regulatory requirements.
44 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Nestlé’s Employee Resource Groups are key to improv- for generations to come. For Nestlé, this is more than
ing workplace culture by fostering a sense of belonging just creating jobs and giving people opportunities. It is PILLARS OF SUPPORT FOR YOUTH
and inclusion among employees. The groups provide about encouraging young people to embrace entre-
a safe space for employees to share their experiences preneurship, both within Nestlé and in communities all
EMPLOYMENT &
and support each other. around the globe.
EMPLOYABILITY
Providing young people with
free employability training,
Achieving true and lasting diversity, equity and inclusion Now in its eleventh year, the Nestlé needs YOUth ini-
access to first jobs and
across our business is a journey. For many potential tiative is our vehicle to create opportunities for young on-the-job opportunities
employees, it is a key value proposition that attracts them people of all genders, races, beliefs and experiences. (Traineeships, Internships,
Apprenticeships)
to companies like Nestlé. With diverse teams, we create There are three pillars: employment and employability;
value for the company and for groups within societies agripreneurship; and entrepreneurship.
that have historically faced challenges to getting hired
or holding down employment. We hope that through We support youth employment and employability
DE&I, Nestlé can continue to build a strong, diverse and through training, internships, apprenticeships and other
talented workforce that delivers the innovative ideas we work-based learning experiences that help young people
need to grow. thrive in the workplace. By fostering the skills required
to help young people secure a job and progress, we are AGRIPRENEURSHIP
Supporting and encouraging
Nestlé’s commitment to youth: not simply motivated to ensure the future viability of our
young agripreneurs to
fostering future talent to maximize impact own talent pipeline, as important as that is. Where we can create livelihoods as farmers
and run their farms as
employ people directly, we do, but the scope goes beyond
businesses, embedding
Eleven years ago, our CEO Laurent Freixe made a promise: Nestlé. This is about creating opportunities for young regenerative agriculture
to help address the needs of young people to access people everywhere, as employment is a key ingredient methods.
economic opportunities and empower them with the of community advancement, particularly in developing
skills needed to start their careers. In launching Nestlé economies. We empower and enable young people to
needs YOUth, a program focused on young people under share their ideas and connect them with others who can
the age of 30, we would help 10 million young people help turn their ideas into viable business propositions.
access economic opportunities by 2030. We created the Nestlé YOUth Entrepreneurship Platform
(YEP) to foster innovation and entrepreneurial thinking.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Fast forward to 2024 and the target has been met six Through our digital platform,
we want to empower young
years early, thanks to the focus placed on the initiative Since 2017, we have provided 10.2 million young people
people to learn new skills,
by Nestlé Markets and Zones around the world. with access to economic opportunities, including 23 238 test ideas or grow their
job opportunities and 10 612 apprenticeship and train- businesses, to help shape
the future of food.
This is another way in which Nestlé creates value for the eeship opportunities.
societies we serve. Investing in the education, empow-
erment and well-being of young people is essential for
building a skilled workforce, nurturing future leaders,
and ensuring the continuity of progress and prosperity
45 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
An important part of the program is inspiring the farm-
ers of the future, restoring their faith in farming as a SUPPORTING YOUTH WITH FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
career by encouraging a more professional and resilient COMPETENCIES TO STRENGTHEN FOOD SECURITY IN AFRICA
approach. The average age of farmers in many parts of
by Jennifer Amoakowaa Atuahene, Regulatory Officer, Food and Drugs Authority, Ghana
the world is 50 years old or over. We want to encourage
young farmers to be agripreneurs, to take over their As a master’s student in Food Science and Technology “Capability building of youth leads to stronger,
parents’ farms, and run viable, resilient and successful at Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and more resilient communities and an environ-
businesses. Nurturing agripreneurship and equipping Technology, I set out to tackle a problem close to ment where we can source local raw materials,
farmers with the skills and capacity to make the shift my heart: vitamin A deficiency in Ghana. This is an produce and commercialize products with
to more regenerative food systems is crucial if we are issue that affects many economically disadvantaged strong local value-propositions.”
to have access to quality raw materials in the future. communities, and I knew that the solution needed to
Celine Worth, R&D Program Manager
be both affordable and accessible. So, I focused my for Affordable Nutrition, Nestlé
Effectively engaging young people and expanding our research on creating a nutritious product using locally
programs to create more impact requires collaboration. sourced orange-flesh sweet potatoes – a practical and Not only did it provide financial support, but it also
We are a founding member of the European Alliance sustainable approach to addressing this widespread gave me the chance to bring my ideas to life on an
for Apprenticeships, and the Global Alliance for Nestlé deficiency. Being part of Nestlé’s academic part- industrial scale. After being invited to join the Nestlé
needs YOUth. We have worked to facilitate the creation nership was a turning point in my journey. This is a R&D Centre in Côte d’Ivoire, I had the opportunity
of apprenticeship programs through bringing together program that sponsors numerous PhDs and master’s to work alongside experts and learn firsthand how
private companies and public bodies, and with our part- theses in the field of affordable nutrition across nine to take a product from the initial concept to a larger
ners we have helped millions of young people find a job, universities across sub-Saharan Africa. setting. It was challenging, but it opened my eyes to
thrive in the workplace or start a business. the real-world applications of my work.
In this chapter and through the case studies, we have The experience has taught me resilience, sharp-
detailed how Nestlé helps people living and working in ened my analytical skills, and pushed me beyond
the communities we serve to thrive in different ways. the boundaries of academic research. I learned that
These projects are part of the holistic approach we favor real change requires a mix of scientific knowledge,
for creating shared value, addressing environmental and practical experience and the courage to innovate.
social issues together, providing for people’s nutritional
needs, and collaborating with partners, suppliers, farmers, Today, as a Regulatory Officer for Ghana’s Food and
employees and the people who live and work around Drugs Authority, I carry forward the insights and skills
us for greater impact. I gained, driven by the hope that my work can contrib-
ute to lasting nutritional solutions in my community.
It can seem complicated and even daunting to try to
address the challenges the world faces. However, this is
Jennifer’s work has included tackling vitamin A deficiency
Creating Shared Value. Our company was started by an
in Ghana with sustainable, local solutions through Nestlé’s
inventor who created a product to meet an urgent need, academic partnership.
an infant cereal that saved the lives of sick children. Henri
46 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
Nestlé was confident he could build and maintain trust
through consistently delivering high-quality products. We COMMUNITY SUPPORT FOR LASTING IMPACT
continue to be inspired by his example as we work on
by Nina Kruchten, Global Community Giving, Nestlé
creating shared value across our value chain for Nestlé
and for society at large. Our approach to community giving reflects the inte- and Red Crescent Societies and World Central
gration of both our business strengths and com- Kitchen – channel funding, products and logistical
mitment to addressing societal needs. We focus on support during emergencies to help tackle immediate
areas where Nestlé is present and where we can needs and hunger. Our close relationship with these
make a meaningful impact, including disaster relief partners enables rapid response to climate-related
and food access. crises, such as hurricanes and floods, or humani-
tarian disasters.
Nestlé’s community giving involves substantial
product donations, 72% of contributions, alongside Beyond immediate needs, Nestlé also invests in fos-
financial support. Our food access efforts are pri- tering community vibrancy. This includes supporting
marily channeled through partnerships with local cultural and sporting events, particularly in our home
foodbanks and global networks – Global Food Banking region of Switzerland. We also integrate employees
Network, Feeding America, and the European Food into community giving, engaging our people to volun-
Bank Federation. Our work to support food-insecurity teer with our community partners, such as supporting
and food waste has grown significantly, supporting local food banks and clean-ups. This approach not
these organizations throughout the year. only enhances impact but also fosters a sense of
purpose among our employees. By targeting our
Our partnerships with global disaster relief organi- efforts, Nestlé creates value for communities while
zations – the International Federation of Red Cross reinforcing its role as an engaged corporate citizen.
We help support
food banks like
FoodCycle
in Indonesia.
Nestlé responded to the crisis in
Valencia following the flooding in 2024.
47 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
SUPPORTING INDONESIA’S FARMERS Left: Members of the Sidodadi
Farm Group use goat manure
TO IMPROVE LIVELIHOODS
to make organic fertilizer – a
by Agus Wahyudi, coffee farmer, Indonesia crucial part of their approach
to regenerative agriculture.
As a coffee farmer in the Tanggamus Regency in the
Below: Tri Wahyuni shows off
Lampung region of Indonesia for the last 12 years, I
the recent nutmeg harvest.
have been facing increasing challenges due to extreme
weather. Long periods of drought, unexpected heavy
rains and rising input costs have made it difficult to
maintain a stable income.
For the past two and a half years, I have taken part in
Nestlé’s RegenTa initiative, which is part of the Nescafé
Plan. It was introduced to help farmers like me adopt
regenerative agriculture practices that make the farm
more resilient to droughts and heavy rains, and to improve
soil fertility, which also enhances our income and live-
lihood overall.
The program has opened my eyes to what is possible.
I adopted intercropping, which involves planting crops
such as chili, java long chili, pepper, odot grass, taro,
and avocado trees alongside my coffee farm. This prac-
tice optimizes the use of my limited land and helps to
prevent pests and diseases from spreading through-
out my fields. It also increases soil fertility and reduces
soil erosion. Cultivating diverse crops provides better
conditions for pollinators and natural predators, which
keep my farm productive and healthy. Additionally, with
the support of the German Government Development
Agency GIZ* as a partner through the Farmer Business
School, I have been able to improve my entrepreneurial
knowledge, further enhancing my farming practices and
overall business acumen.
The bees help pollinate Agus’ coffee plants, Farmer Agus checks the goats he has raised in his
The cash crops also provide additional income throughout
while the honey they produce is used as demonstration plot. He uses their manure to help
the year. Previously, I only relied on coffee harvesting, which an additional food source for his family. grow crops and sells the meat for additional income.
48 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
occurs once a year, making cashflow difficult to manage. Farmers in Indonesia, like
those in the Tanggamus
The program also introduced me to goat farming and
Regency, are transforming their
beekeeping. Goats produce manure, which we then use livelihoods with support from
as material for organic fertilizer, reducing my reliance on Nestlé’s RegenTa initiative. By
adopting sustainable practices
expensive chemical inputs. Bees increase biodiversity
like intercropping, organic
and contribute to better coffee yields from pollination. fertilization and beekeeping,
they are enhancing soil health,
We consume the honey, which improves the health of
boosting biodiversity and
my family. securing additional income
streams.
“The RegenTa program has now reached more
than 2 000 farmers, offering both technical and
financial assistance to apply regenerative agricul-
ture in ways that suit local conditions. And we will
extend the initiative to benefit more smallholder
farmers across Indonesia and beyond.”
Id Syahrudi, Head of Corporate Sustainable
Agriculture at Nestlé Indonesia
I also apply the cover crop, Arachis pintoi, which helps to
maintain soil moisture, reduce weed growth and provide
feed for livestock. I also plant shading trees that produce
pepper and java long chili. In dry season conditions,
shade helps to prevent coffee plants from wilting.
The RegenTa project has had a major impact on me and
my family. I can optimize my income from my coffee
farm because I have implemented intercropping and
sustainable farming practices. The changes I’ve made
on my small farm have made me more resilient to face
future challenges, even with unpredictable weather.
* Nescafé and GIZ cooperate in Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines
and Côte d’Ivoire with the aim of improving the resilience and
income of smallholder coffee farmers.
49 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
Creating Shared Value People, Families and Pets People and Planet People in Communities
DELIVERING ON OUR PROMISE book, we hope you see a business deeply committed to
making a difference. Nestlé is more than a food, beverage
OF CREATING SHARED VALUE
and nutrition company – we are a champion of resilience
and progress. Together, we are proving that shared value
Our approach to Creating Shared Value is not just about is not just a concept but a tangible reality.
meeting the needs of today. It is about building a founda-
tion for tomorrow. Through relentless innovation, scalable
solutions and transformative partnerships, Nestlé aims
to ensure that businesses, communities and the planet
prosper together.
Creating Shared Value requires us to leverage our exper-
tise, resources and global reach to address the world’s
most pressing challenges while at the same time making
our business more resilient. From advancing nutrition
with options for healthier diets to implementing regen-
erative agricultural practices to help protect our planet,
and from strengthening livelihoods in our supply chains
to fostering innovation in waste reduction and water
stewardship – Nestlé is a catalyst for change.
By working hand in hand with farmers, suppliers, scientists,
policymakers and communities, we are not just partici-
pants but leaders in helping to create an equitable and
regenerative food system. This collaborative spirit seeks
to ensure that the steps we take are amplified, solutions
are scalable, and innovations deliver lasting value.
The scale of the challenges we face as a global com-
munity – from climate change to malnutrition – can seem
daunting. But we view these challenges as opportunities
to innovate, to lead and to add value to our business. Our
work is far from done, but we are emboldened by the
progress we’ve made and the partnerships we’ve forged.
The future is ours to shape, and we’re more determined Bags of coffee beans stored
in the coffee cooperative’s
than ever to work for a future where everyone can thrive.
warehouse, the result of a fruitful
As you reflect on the insights and stories shared in this harvest, are ready to be sold.
50 Creating Shared Value at Nestlé 2024
