Environmental, social and governance review Our ESG review sets out our approach to our environment, customers, employees and governance. It also explains how we aim to achieve our purpose and deliver our strategy in a way that is sustainable and how we build strong relationships with all of our stakeholders.
44 Our approach to ESG 46 Environmental 73 Social 85 Governance How we present our TCFD disclosures Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 17 and additional information is included on pages 68 and
423. Further details have been embedded in this section and the Risk review section on pages 221 to 230. Our TCFD disclosures are highlighted with the following symbol: TCFD ESG review Our approach to ESG We are on a journey to incorporate environmental, social and governance principles throughout the organisation, and are taking steps to embed sustainability into our purpose and corporate strategy.
About the ESG review Our purpose is: 'Opening up a world of Environmental - Transition to net zero opportunity'.
- Since 2020, we have provided and facilitated $210.7bn of sustainable finance and investment towards our ambition of $750bn to $1tn by 2030. We monitor developments in taxonomies To achieve our purpose and deliver our and changing market guidelines in this space.
strategy in a way that is sustainable, we are guided by our values: we value difference; - In December, we updated our energy policy as an important mechanism to help deliver our we succeed together; we take responsibility; financed emissions targets and phase down fossil fuel financing in line with our net zero and we get it done. ambition, and introduced further restrictions for thermal and metallurgical coal.
- We have introduced on-balance sheet financed emissions targets for eight sectors, noting We also need to build strong relationships the limitations of evolving methodologies and data quality.
with all of our stakeholders, who are the people who work for us, bank with us, Read more in the Environmental section on page 46.
own us, regulate us, and live in the societies we serve and on the planet we all inhabit.
Social - Building inclusion and resilience Transition to net zero - In 2022, 33.3% senior leadership roles were occupied by women, with a target to achieve We have continued to take steps to implement 35% by 2025. We have put in place important foundations to support our goal of doubling our climate ambition to become net zero in our the number of Black employees in senior leadership roles by 2025.
operations and our supply chain by 2030, and - Employee engagement, which is our headline measure, increased to 73% in 2022 following align our financed emissions to net zero by a five-point increase from 2019, and was three points above benchmark.
2050. We have expanded our coverage of sectors for on-balance sheet financed Read more in the Employees section on page 74.
emissions targets, noting the challenge of evolving methodologies and data limitations. Governance - Acting responsibly In addition, our operating environment for climate analysis and portfolio alignment is - We conducted a review of our salient human rights issues, including stakeholder consultation developing. We continue work to improve our with non-governmental organisations ('NGOs') and potentially affected groups.
data management processes and are setting - Our customer satisfaction performance, using the net promoter score, improved in many targets to align our provision of finance with markets in which we operate. However, we still have work to do to improve our rank position the goals and timelines of the Paris Agreement. against competitors, as some have accelerated their performance faster than us.
In March 2022, we announced plans to Read more in the Governance section on page 85.
turn our net zero ambition for our portfolio of clients into business transformation across the Group. The plan involves the publication of We are committed to ensuring our Acting responsibly a Group-wide climate transition plan in 2023. people - and particularly our leadership - Our governance pillar focuses on We continued our work to review and update are representative of the communities that our approach to acting responsibly our wider financing and investment policies we serve, and that we support their well-being and recognises topics such as human critical to achieving net zero by 2050, which and development so they can learn and grow rights, conduct and data integrity.
included publishing an updated energy policy in their careers. We are equally committed and thermal coal phase-out policy in to ensuring there are no unnecessary barriers Our policies and procedures help us provide December 2022. to finance for our customers. We have an the right outcomes for customers, including ambition to create a welcoming, inclusive those with enhanced care needs, which in We are also working with peers and industry and accessible banking experience. 2022 took into account the current cost of bodies to help mobilise the financial services living crisis. Customer experience is at the industry to take action on climate change, Inclusion goes hand-in-hand with resilience. heart of how we operate and is measured biodiversity and nature. We build resilience for our colleagues by through customer satisfaction and customer supporting their physical, mental and financial complaints.
Building inclusion and resilience well-being, and by ensuring they are equipped Our social pillar is centred around building with the skills and knowledge to further their We continue our journey to embed ESG inclusion and resilience for our colleagues careers during a period of significant economic principles across the organisation, including and customers, as well as in the communities transformation. For our customers, we build incorporating climate change-related risks we serve. resilience primarily through education - by within the risk management framework, helping them to understand their finances and training our workforce, incorporating how to manage them effectively. climate-related targets within executive scorecards, and engaging with customers and suppliers.
44 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Our approach to ESG How we decide what to measure We listen to our stakeholders in a number of regulations to choose what we measure and globally consistent set of sustainability different ways, which we set out in more detail publicly report in this ESG review. standards, we continued to report against within the 'ESG overview' on page 14. We use the core World Economic Forum ('WEF') the information they provide us to identify the Under the ESG Guide, 'materiality' is 'Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics' and issues that are most important to them and considered to be the threshold at which ESG Sustainability Accounting Standards consequently also matter to our own business. issues become sufficiently important to our Board ('SASB') metrics this year.
investors and other stakeholders that they Our ESG Committee and other relevant should be publicly reported. We are also Consistent with the scope of financial governance bodies regularly discuss the new informed by stock exchange listing and information presented in our Annual Report and existing themes and issues that matter to disclosure rules globally. We know that what and Accounts, the ESG review covers the our stakeholders. Our management team then is important to our stakeholders evolves over operations of HSBC Holdings plc and its uses this insight, alongside the framework of time and we plan to continue to assess our subsidiaries. Given the relative immaturity the ESG Guide (which refers to our obligations approach to help ensure we remain relevant of ESG-related data and methodologies in under the Environmental, Social and in what we measure and publicly report. general, we are on a journey towards Governance Reporting Guide contained improving completeness and robustness.
in Appendix 27 to The Rules Governing the Recognising the need for a consistent Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange and global set of ESG metrics, we monitor For further information on our approach to of Hong Kong Limited), and the LR9.8.6R(8) the developments related to International reporting, see the 'Additional information' section of page 422.
of the Financial Conduct Authority's ('FCA') Sustainability Standard Board ('ISSB') and Listing Rules, and other applicable laws and other standard setters. In the absence of a Our reporting around ESG We report on ESG matters throughout our Annual Report and Accounts, including the 'ESG overview' section of the Strategic Report (pages 14 to 19), this ESG review (pages 44 to 96), and the 'Climate risk' and 'Insights from climate scenario analysis' sections of the Risk review (pages 221 to 230).
In addition, we have other supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.
Detailed data Additional reports Indices ESG Data Pack 2022 UK Pay Gap Report 2022 SASB Index 2022 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2022 WEF Index 2022 Green Bond Report 2022 HSBC UN Sustainable Development Goals Bond and Sukuk Report 2022 For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting centre at Assurance relating to ESG data TCFD HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for For 2022, ESG data is subject to stand-alone - our own operations' scope 1, 2 and 3 preparation of the ESG information and independent limited assurance reports (business travel) greenhouse gas emissions all the supporting records, including selecting by PwC in accordance with International data (see page 63); and supply chain appropriate measurement and reporting Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 emissions data; and criteria, in our Annual Report and Accounts, (Revised) 'Assurance Engagements other - our 2019 baseline for financed emissions ESG Data Pack and the additional reports than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial covering 38% of assets under management published on our website. Information' and, in respect of the greenhouse for our asset management business (see gas emissions, in accordance with page 56).
We recognise the importance of ESG International Standard on Assurance disclosures and the quality of data underpinning Engagements 3410 'Assurance Engagements The work performed by external parties to it. We also acknowledge that our internal on Greenhouse Gas Statements', issued by support their limited assurance report is processes to support ESG are in the process the International Auditing and Assurance substantially less than the work performed for of being developed and currently rely on manual Standards Board, on the following specific a reasonable assurance opinion, like those sourcing and categorisation of data. Certain ESG-related disclosures and metrics: provided over financial statements.
aspects of our ESG disclosures are subject to enhanced verification and assurance - our Green Bond Report 2022 (published Our data dictionaries and methodologies procedures including the first and second line in December 2022); for preparing the above ESG-related metrics of defence. We aim to continue to enhance our - our financed emissions for 2019 and 2020 and third-party limited assurance reports approach in line with external expectations. for six sectors (see page 50); can be found on:
- our progress towards our ambition to provide are/esg-and-responsible-business/esgand facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable reporting-centre.
finance and investment (see page 57); ESG review | Environmental Environmental TCFD Transition to net zero We are developing new solutions to the climate crisis and supporting the transition of our customers, industries and markets to a net zero future, while moving to net zero ourselves.
At a glance Transition to net zero Our approach to climate risk Impact on reporting and financial Our net zero ambition represents one of our We recognise that to achieve our climate statements four strategic pillars. At the core of it is an ambition we need to enhance our approach We have assessed the impact of climate risk ambition to support our customers on their to managing climate risk. We have established on our balance sheet and have concluded that transition to net zero, so that the greenhouse a dedicated programme to develop strong there is no material impact on the financial gas emissions from our portfolio of clients climate risk management capabilities. statements for the year ended 31 December reaches net zero by 2050. We also aim to be 2022. We considered the impact on a number net zero in our operations and supply chain by We manage climate risks in line with our risk of areas of our balance sheet including
2030. We have made good progress on our management framework and three lines of expected credit losses, classification and net zero ambition, including publishing an defence model. We also use stress testing measurement of financial instruments, updated energy policy as an important and scenario analysis to assess how these goodwill and other intangible assets, our mechanism to meeting our financed emissions risks will impact our customers, business owned properties, as well as our long-term targets, and expanding our financed emissions and infrastructure. This approach gives the viability and going concern. As part of targets to eight sectors in total. We aim to Board and senior management visibility and assessing the impact on our financial provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of oversight of the climate risks that could have statements we conducted scenario analysis to sustainable finance and investment to support the greatest impact on HSBC, and helps us understand the impact of climate risk on our our customers in their transition to net zero identify opportunities to deliver sustainable business (see page 67). For further details on and a sustainable future by 2030. We continue growth in support of our climate ambition. our climate risk exposures, see page 145.
to engage with our clients on their transition plans and to provide them with financing For further details on our approach to climate risk For further details of how management has solutions to support their sustainability goals. management, see 'Environmental, social and considered the impact of climate-related risks governance risk' on page 139, 'Climate risk' on on its financial position and performance see page 221 and 'Insights from scenario analysis' on our 'Critical accounting estimates and page 226. judgements' in Note 1 'Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies' from page 335.
In this section Transition Understanding our climate To achieve our climate ambition we need to be transparent on the Page 47 to net zero reporting opportunities, challenges, related risks and progress we make.
Our approach to the We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and in Page 49 transition our own operations and supply chain by 2030.
Financed emissions We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050 Page 50 or sooner.
Supporting customers Our ability to help finance the transformation of businesses and Page 57 through transition infrastructure is key to building a sustainable future for our customers and society.
Unlocking climate We are working closely with a range of partners to help accelerate Page 60 solutions and innovations investment in natural resources, technology and sustainable infrastructure.
Biodiversity and natural By addressing nature-related risks and investing in nature, we have an Page 61 capital strategy opportunity to help accelerate the transition to net zero.
Our approach to our own Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is to achieve net zero carbon Page 62 operations emissions in our operations and supply chain by 2030 or sooner.
Our approach Managing risk for our We manage climate risk across all our businesses in line with our Page 64 to climate risk stakeholders Group-wide risk management framework.
Our approach to Our sustainability risk policies seek to ensure that the financial Page 65 sustainability policies services that we provide to customers do not contribute to unacceptable impacts on people or the environment.
Insights from scenario Enhancing our climate change stress testing and scenario analysis Page 67 analysis capability is crucial in identifying and understanding climate-related risks and opportunities.
Our approach to Task Force on Climate- Our TCFD index provides our responses to each of the 11 Page 68 climate reporting related Financial recommendations and summarises where additional information Disclosures ('TCFD') can be found.
46 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Transition to net zero TCFD Understanding our climate reporting The transition to net zero is one of the Limited international alignment on green Need for enhanced governance, biggest challenges for our generation taxonomies processes, systems, controls and data We recognise that our planet urgently needs Green finance taxonomies are not consistent Our climate ambition requires enhanced drastic and lasting action to protect our globally, and evolving taxonomies and capabilities including governance, processes, communities, businesses and the natural practices could result in revisions in our systems and controls. We also need new environment from the damaging effects of sustainable finance reporting going forward. sources of data, some of which may be climate change. We recognise that there can be differing views difficult to assure using traditional verification of external stakeholders in relation to these techniques. We continue to invest in our Our ability to meet our net zero ambition - evolving taxonomies, and we will seek to align climate resources and skills, and develop to align the financed emissions of our portfolio to enhanced industry standards as they our business management process to to net zero by 2050, and to become net zero are further developed. We aim to increase integrate climate impacts. Our activities are in our operations and supply chain by 2030 transparency across the different types of underpinned by efforts and investment to
- relies on the pace of change taking place in green and transition finance and investment develop our data and analytics capabilities and the real economy and action among a broad categories going forward, and plan to engage to help ensure that we have the appropriate set of stakeholders, including policymakers. with standard setters to help evolve processes, systems, controls and governance This will include responsible actions from sustainable finance product standards to best in place to support our transition.
both HSBC and our clients to address incentivise science-based decarbonisation, climate change. particularly in high transition risk sectors. We are taking steps to establish an ESG data utility tool to help streamline and support We acknowledge that to achieve our climate Engagement with clients on their data needs across the organisation. We are ambition we need to be transparent on the transition at an early stage enhancing our processes, systems, controls opportunities, challenges, related risks Success will require governments, clients and governance to help achieve the required and progress we make. Our reporting will and finance providers to work together. Stable scale to meet the demands of future ESG need to evolve to keep pace with market and strong policy environments are critical reporting. Certain aspects of our reporting rely developments and we will aim to overcome to accelerating the energy transition. Active on manual sourcing and categorisation of challenges with regard to consistency across engagement between public and private data. This categorisation of data is not always different markets in which we operate. The stakeholders is fundamental to de-risk new aligned with how our businesses are currently role of standard setters and regulators will be technologies and markets and establish new managed. We also have a dependency on important in achieving standardisation. We business structures. emissions data from our clients. Given the have highlighted below some of the limitations manual nature, enhanced verification and and challenges that our organisation, and the We established a new process to assess client assurance procedures are performed on a wider industry, face with regard to climate transition plans for our largest energy sector sample basis over this reporting including the reporting. clients and those involved in thermal coal to first and second line of defence. Our models help inform areas for further engagement and undergo independent review by an internal Our transition will be challenging but we guide business decisions. We acknowledge model review group, and we obtain limited have an opportunity to make an impact that our assessment of client transition plans is assurance on our financed emissions and Our global footprint means that many of our in the initial stages and our engagement with sustainable finance disclosures from external clients operate in high-emitting sectors and clients on their plans and progress will need parties including our external auditors.
regions that face the greatest challenge in to continue to be embedded.
reducing emissions in the critical decades ahead to 2050. Their ability to transition In December 2022, following extensive effectively will be key to reaching a global consultation with scientific and industry net zero economy in time, but they are often bodies, we published our updated energy faced with increasingly high energy demand, policy and an update to our thermal coal relatively new carbon-intensive assets, and phase-out policy. These policies acknowledge lower level of investments into clean a need to phase down financing of fossil fuels technologies. while also investing at scale in climate solutions to enable a transition to net zero.
Our approach is rooted in engagement with our clients to provide them with the capital and tools to help them transform their business models and decarbonise. It is also rooted in the reality that a just and inclusive transition requires us to consider region-specific challenges and opportunities.
Additionally, countries are moving at different speeds and, given our geographical and sectoral spread, we will naturally have one of the most complex transitions.
ESG review | Environmental Understanding our climate reporting continued Capturing the full-scope of our emissions Disclosure challenges for year-end the developments in industry standards Having set on-balance sheet 2030 emissions reporting for the publication of such emissions and targets for the oil and gas, and power and Given the challenges on data sourcing, as well associated targets, and, as mentioned utilities sectors, we have now expanded as the evolution of our processes and industry above, we will seek to align to the PCAF our coverage to include heavy industry and standards as mentioned above, there has standard when published. However, we will transport sectors, which are key drivers of been an impact on certain climate disclosures: aim to provide transparency on our 2019 energy demand. These sectors cover the most and 2020 facilitated emissions for the oil and emissions-intensive parts of our portfolio. - Thermal coal exposures: We acknowledge gas, and power and utilities sectors as they We plan to extend our analysis to four that our processes, systems, controls and become available, which may be in advance additional sectors - shipping, agriculture, governance are not yet designed to fully of the PCAF standard being available.
commercial real estate and residential real identify and disclose thermal coal - Shipping financed emissions targets: For estate - in our Annual Report and Accounts exposures, particularly for exposures within the shipping sector, we have chosen to defer 2023 and related disclosures. broader conglomerates. We are reassessing setting a baseline and target until there is the reliability of our data and reviewing sufficient reliable data to support our work, Our initial focus has been on on-balance sheet our basis of preparation to help ensure that allowing us to more accurately track financing, including project finance and direct we are reporting all relevant thermal coal progress towards net zero.
lending. We also have facilitated emissions exposures aligned to our thermal coal policy.
from our capital markets activities, through our As a result, we have not reported thermal Continuing to evolve our climate underwriting in debt and equity capital markets coal exposures in this Annual Report and disclosures and syndicated lending. We aim to update Accounts 2022. We expect that our updated In 2023, we plan to publish our first Groupour targets and baselines to include both thermal coal exposure dating back to wide climate transition plan to provide further on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet 31 December 2020 will be made available details of our strategic approach to net zero activities following the publication of the for reporting as soon as practicable in 2023, and how we plan to transform our organisation industry standard for capital markets although this is dependent on availability to execute our ambition. We also aim to methodology by the Partnership for Carbon and quality of data. publish an updated deforestation policy and Accounting Financials ('PCAF'). This should - Facilitated emissions: In March 2022, build out our financed emissions portfolio give guidance on how to apportion the we said we would set capital markets coverage to include agriculture, residential real emissions responsibility between a facilitator emissions targets for the oil and gas, and estate, commercial real estate and shipping, and an investor within capital markets activities. power and utilities sectors based on the and plan to update our targets for certain industry reporting standard from the PCAF sectors to include facilitated emissions once Our Asset Management business released once published. We have chosen to defer the PCAF standard is launched.
a coal phase-out policy in September 2022, setting targets for facilitated emissions and made its initial emissions disclosure until the PCAF standard for capital markets In 2023, we will continue to review our in November 2022 with a portfolio is published, which is expected in 2023. approach to disclosures, with our reporting decarbonisation target for 2030 to align We had intended to disclose facilitated needing to evolve to keep pace with market investments with the goals of the Paris emissions for 2019 and 2020 for the oil developments.
Agreement. The commitment covers listed and gas, and power and utilities sectors equity and corporate fixed income where for transparency, as we did last year. For details of assurance around ESG data, data and methodologies are most mature. However, following internal and external see page 45.
We will also consider the inclusion of assurance reviews performed during the For details of our approach to calculating emissions on our insurance business. year, we identified certain data and process financed emissions and the relevant data and methodology limitations, see page 52.
limitations and have deferred the publication For details of our sustainable finance and of our facilitated emissions for 2019 and investment ambition, see page 57.
2020 for these two sectors while additional For details of our approach to thermal coal, verification procedures are performed. We see page 66.
aim to provide these disclosures as soon as practicable in 2023. We continue to monitor Awarded as a green lease leader We are carrying out a programme to promote green lease clauses across our global portfolio of leased buildings, which commit our landlords to helping us reduce our impact on the environment. As part of this programme, in May 2022, we agreed to move our US headquarters to The Spiral office tower at 66 Hudson Boulevard in Manhattan, New York, which we expect to reduce our total energy consumption by 60% compared with 2021.
The Spiral is on track to achieve industry leading LEED Gold and Fitwel certifications for sustainability and building health. Alongside our real estate broker JLL, and our landlord Tishman Speyer, we were recognised by the Green Lease Leaders Organisation with a Green Lease Leaders Team Transaction Award - Platinum Level, for our collaboration to improve the energy efficiency and sustainability of buildings.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Our approach to the transition We are committed to a net zero future. Our We aim to align our financed emissions to net our customers on their transition plans to form global footprint means we play a significant zero by 2050 or sooner. We are setting targets a core part of our approach as we pursue role in the sectors and regions most critical to on a sector by sector basis that are consistent our targets. We acknowledge that our the transition to net zero. Many of our clients with net zero outcomes by 2050. In assessing assessment of client transition plans is in the operate in the high-emitting sectors and financed emissions, we focus on those parts initial stages and our engagement with clients regions that face the greatest challenge in of the sector that we consider are most on their plans and progress will need to reducing emissions. This means we can have material in terms of greenhouse gas continue to be embedded.
a significant impact in helping to drive down emissions, and where we believe engagement emissions in the real economy, but this is and climate action have the greatest potential We aim to become net zero in our operations a challenging process that will take time. to effect change, taking into account industry and supply chain by 2030. This covers our and scientific guidance. direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, The Paris Agreement aims to limit the rise known as scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. As well in global temperatures to well below 2°C, We have set interim 2030 targets for on- as transforming our own operations and preferably to 1.5°C, compared with pre- balance sheet financed emissions for eight supply chain to net zero, we are asking our industrial levels. To limit the rise in global sectors. These include six sectors for which we suppliers to do the same.
temperatures to 1.5°C, the global economy have reported 2019 and 2020 emissions: oil would need to reach net zero greenhouse gas and gas; power and utilities; cement; iron, steel The next section provides further details on emissions by 2050. We are committed to a and aluminium; aviation; and automotive. We how we are measuring our progress on our science-aligned phase-down of fossil fuel have also set targets for thermal coal power financed emissions ambition. For further details finance in line with the Paris Agreement. and thermal coal mining. of the progress made to date on our own operations and supply chain, see page 62. The We have committed to publish our own In 2022, we established a process to assess diagram below shows how these ambitions Group-wide climate transition plan in 2023. client transition plans to help inform areas map to our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
This plan will bring together our climate for further engagement and guide business strategy, science-based targets, and how decisions. We expect engagement with we plan to embed this into our processes, policies, governance and capabilities. It will outline, in one place, not only our commitments, targets and approach to Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions net zero across the sectors and markets we To measure and manage our carbon emissions, we follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol serve, but also how we are transforming our global framework, which identifies three scopes of emissions. Scope 1 represents the direct organisation to embed net zero and help emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the indirect emissions resulting from the use of finance the transition. Our approach to nature electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 represents indirect emissions attributed to and enabling a just and resilient transition upstream and downstream activities taking place to provide services to customers. Our will also be incorporated into our climate upstream activities include business travel and emissions from our supply chain including transition plan. transport, distribution and waste. Our downstream activities include those related to investments and financed emissions.
Our net zero policies In December 2022, we published our updated Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also broken down into 15 categories, of which we policy covering the broader energy system, provide reporting emissions data for three related to upstream activities, which are: purchased including upstream oil and gas, oil and gas goods and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); and business travel (category 6).
power generation, coal, hydrogen, renewables We also provide reporting data for one category related to downstream activities, which is and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and energy investments and financed emissions (category 15) from waste. The policy seeks to balance three related objectives: driving down global For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at greenhouse gas emissions; enabling an orderly transition that builds resilience in Our own Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 3 Our financed the longer term; and supporting a just and operations and Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect emissions supply chain affordable transition. In December, we also expanded our thermal coal phase-out policy, See page 63 See page 51 in which we committed to not providing new finance or advisory services for the specific purposes of the conversion of existing Electricity, Purchased Company coal-to-gas-fired power plants, or new hea s t t i e n a g m a nd g s o e o r d v s ic a e n s d facilities metallurgical coal mines. Our updated cooling (category 1) energy and thermal coal phase-out policies Company were drafted in consultation with leading vehicles independent scientific and international bodies and investors. Details on the policies can be found in 'Our approach to sustainability policies' on page 65. Business Capital Investments and travel goods financed emissions (category 6) (category 2) (category 15) Working with our customers and suppliers We believe we can make the most significant impact by working with our customers Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities to support their transition to a net zero global economy.
1 HSBC-sponsored shuttles only ESG review | Environmental Financed emissions TCFD We announced our ambition to become a net the greenhouse gas emissions associated with shipping sector, we noted significant data zero bank in October 2020, including an aim those activities. They form part of our scope 3 gaps. We have therefore chosen to defer to align our financed emissions to net zero emissions, which include emissions associated setting a baseline and target for this sector by 2050 or sooner. We plan to publish initial with the use of a company's products and until there is sufficient reliable data to support financed emissions targets for 2030, and in services. We also recognise that we have more our work.
five-year increments thereafter. We remain to do to embed these targets in our business, committed to working with our customers including enhanced capabilities and new We plan to measure and report progress on an to support their journey towards a net zero sources of data as set out on page 47. annual basis, and plan to extend our analysis future, and deploying capital towards to four new sectors - shipping, agriculture, decarbonisation solutions for the most In 2021, we started measuring our financed commercial real estate and residential real emissions-intensive sectors. emissions for two emissions-intensive sectors: estate - in our Annual Report and Accounts oil and gas, and power and utilities. On the 2023 and related disclosures. For the new Our analysis of financed emissions considers following pages, we present the progress for sectors, we plan to set production intensity on-balance sheet financing, including project both sectors against the on-balance sheet targets. We believe these targets are robust as finance and direct lending. We distinguish financed emissions baseline that we now they are linked to real world production, and between 'on-balance sheet financed' and measure ourselves against. We have also allow us to deploy capital towards solutions for 'facilitated' emissions where necessary. begun measuring the financed emissions progressive decarbonisation, supporting our Financed emissions link the financing we and setting targets for four additional sectors: clients' transition plans.
provide to our customers and their activities in cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; the real economy, and provide an indication of and automotive. During our analysis of the Our approach to financed emissions In our approach to assessing our financed propulsion systems for new aircraft is where To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed emissions, our key methodological decisions attention needs to be prioritised to meet net emissions, we used drawn balances as at were shaped in line with industry practices zero targets. By estimating emissions and 31 December in the year of analysis related to and standards. We recognise these are setting targets for customers that directly wholesale credit and lending, which included still developing. account for, or indirectly control the majority business loans, trade and receivables finance, of emissions in each industry, we can focus and project finance as the value of finance Coverage of our analysis our engagement and resources where we provided to customers. We excluded products For each sector, we focused our analysis on believe the potential for change is highest. that were short term by design, which are the parts of the value chain where we believe typically less than 12 months in duration, the majority of emissions are produced based With regards to the different types of following guidance from the Partnership for upon industry benchmarks, and to help greenhouse gases measured, we include Carbon Accounting Financials ('PCAF'), and reduce double counting of emissions. CO and methane (measured in COe) for to reduce volatility.
2 2 For aviation, we have focused on scope 1 the oil and gas sectors, and CO only for emissions from airlines and scope 3 from the remaining sectors due to data availability aircraft lessors as we believe the use of and greenhouse gas emissions materiality lower emissions aviation fuels and different within each sector.
The chart below shows the scope of our financed emissions analysis of the six sectors, including upstream, midstream and downstream activities within each sector.
Coverage of Sector Scope of emissions Value chain in scope greenhouse gases Oil and gas 1, 2 and 3 Upstream Midstream D ownstream Integrated/ CO/methane (e.g. extraction) (e.g. transport) (e.g . fuel use) diversified 2 Upstream Midstream Downstream Power and utilities 1 and 2 (e.g. generation) (e a .
n g d . t d ra is n t s ri m bu is t s io io n n ) (e.g. retail) CO 2 Cement 1 and 2 Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream (e.g clinker Downstream CO materials, e xtraction ) and cement manufacturing) (e.g. construction ) 2 Iron, steel and Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream aluminium 1 and 2 materials, extr action) (e.g. ore to steel) (e.g. construction) CO 2 Aviation 1 for airlines, Upstrea m Midstream Downstream CO 3 for aircraft lessors (e.g. parts manufacture rs) (e.g. aircraft manufacturing) (e.g. airlines and air less ors) 2 Automotive 1, 2 and 3 (e. U g. p s s u tr p e p a l m iers) (e.g m . M a m i n d o u s t f t o a r r e c a v tu m e r h e i ) cle D ( o e w .g n . s re tr t e a a il m ) CO 2 Key: Included in analysis 50 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Financed emissions continued Setting our targets An evolving approach We set targets for sectors based on We believe methodologies for calculating decarbonisation pathways that are financed emissions and setting targets should constructed using the Net Zero Emissions be transparent and comparable, and should by 2050 scenario produced by the provide science-based insights that focus International Energy Agency ('IEA'). engagement efforts, inform capital allocation and develop solutions that are both timely Following guidance from the Net-Zero Banking and impactful. We continue to engage with Alliance ('NZBA') and the Science Based regulators, standard setters and industry Targets Initiative ('SBTi') this scenario bodies to shape our approach to measuring has low reliance on negative emissions financed emissions and managing portfolio technologies, or the possibility for the rise alignment to net zero. We also work with in global temperatures to exceed 1.5°C before data providers and our clients to help us cooling again. The scenario makes reasonable gather data from the real economy to improve Connecting the offshore assumptions about the potential for carbon our analysis.
sequestration through nature-based solutions energy industry and land use change. Scenarios used in our analysis are modelled upon allocation assumptions of the available The global transition to a net zero Our approach for financed emissions carbon budget and actions that need to be economy provides opportunities for accounting does not rely on purchasing taken to drive the global transition to 1.5°C companies looking to create new offsets to achieve any financed emissions outcomes. Assumptions include technology connections to renewable energy targets we set. development and/or adoption, shifts in sources. UK-based JDR Cable Systems, the energy mix, the retirement of assets, which is part of TFK Group, links global Meeting our targets for 2030 is dependent behavioural changes and implementation of offshore energy sources to the land on immediate and significant deployment of policy levers, among others. We expect that using its subsea cable technology. As it available clean technology solutions, as shown scenario developers will be continually working looks to expand its production, and with by the IEA's Net Zero by 2050 roadmap for the to improve the usability, accuracy and the backing of UK Export Finance, we global energy sector. Innovation in this decade granularity of pathways.
helped to provide a £100m investment needs to be accompanied by large-scale loan to finance the building of a new construction of infrastructure to enable the facility in Cambois, near Blyth, implementation of cleaner technologies. This Northumberland. The new facility, will require strong policy support and public which occupies the site of a former and private capital to be deployed at scale.
coal-fired power station, will help JDR expand its product portfolio. It is We also recognise that the supply and expected to complete in 2024.
demand side of the market need to move concurrently. The reduction of fossil fuels in favour of clean energy supply needs to be matched by an increase in demand from industry, buildings and transport to consume clean energy. Both the supply and demand still require significant policy support to enable this transition economically.
Leading the electric battery charge in Indonesia We are supporting Hyundai in its journey to produce only electrical vehicles by 2040. We acted as a mandated lead arranger and lender towards a $711m loan to a joint venture company between Hyundai Motor, Kia, Hyundai Mobis and LG Energy Solution. The financing will help fund the construction of an electric vehicle battery manufacturing plant in Karawang, Indonesia, which would be the first in south-east Asia. The facility will have an annual production capacity of 10 gigawatt hours ('GWh')-worth of lithium-ion battery cells.
As the electric vehicle battery sector continues to grow, the facility will help establish Indonesia as an electric vehicle supply chain hub in Asia and be a crucial contributor to Hyundai's net zero ambitions in the region.
ESG review | Environmental Financed emissions continued Data and methodology limitations Our financed emissions estimates and included in our analysis, in particular scope 3 our portfolio-level financed emissions methodological choices are shaped by the emissions. In the absence of client-reported are weighted by the ratio of our financing availability of data for the sectors we analyse. emissions, we estimate them using proxies in relation to the value of the financed based on company production and revenue company. We believe this introduces
- We are members of Partnership for Carbon figures, and validated key data inputs with volatility and are assessing if portfolio Accounting Financials ('PCAF'), which our global relationship managers. Although weight is more appropriate. We remain seeks to define and develop greenhouse we sought to minimise the use of non- conscious that the economic value used gas accounting standards for financial company-specific data, we applied industry in the financed emissions calculation is institutions. PCAF developed the Global averages in our analysis where company- sensitive to changes in drawn amounts or GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard specific data was unavailable. As data market fluctuations, and we plan to be for the Financial Industry, which focuses improves, estimates will be replaced with transparent around drivers for change to on measuring and reporting financed reported figures. Our 2019 emissions for our portfolio financed emissions where possible.
emissions. The PCAF Standard provides oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors - The classification of our clients into sectors guidance on assigning data quality scoring have been revised as a result of changes to is performed with inputs from subject per asset class, creating data transparency data sources. matter experts and will also continue to and encouraging improvements to data - Third-party data sets that feed into our evolve with improvements to data and quality in the medium and long term. analysis may have up to a two-year lag in our sector classification approach.
- We found that data quality scores varied reported emissions figures, and we are - The operating environment for climate across the different sectors and years of our working with data providers to help analysis and portfolio alignment is also analysis, although not significantly. While reduce this. maturing. We continue to work to improve we expect our data quality scores to - The methodology and data used to assess our data management processes, and are improve over time, as companies continue financed emissions and set targets are new implementing steering mechanisms to align to expand their disclosures to meet growing and evolving, and we expect industry our provision of finance with the goals and regulatory and stakeholder expectations, guidance, market practice, and regulations timelines of the Paris Agreement.
there may be fluctuations within sectors to continue to change. We plan to refine our year on year, and/or differences between analysis using appropriate data sources and Our methodology for financed emissions is set the data quality scores between sectors current methodologies available for the out in our Financed Emissions Methodology, due to changes in data availability. sectors we analyse. which is available at who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
- The majority of our clients do not yet report - In line with the PCAF Standard, to calculate esg-reporting-centre.
the full scope of greenhouse gas emissions sector-level baselines and annual updates, Targets and progress We have set out in the table below our defined targets for the on-balance sheet financed emissions for the following sectors: oil and gas; power and utilities; cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; and automotive. On the following pages, we provide more granular details on our financed emissions within these sectors.
Sector 2019 baseline 2020 progress 2030 target Unit1 Target type Target scenario Oil and gas 33.0 30.1 (34)% Mt COe Absolute IEA NZE 2050 Power and utilities2 589.9 509.6 138 tCO/GWh Intensity IEA NZE 2050 Cement 0.64 0.64 0.46 tCO/t cement Intensity IEA NZE 2050 Iron, steel and aluminium3 1.8 2.0 1.05 (1.43) tCO/t metal Intensity IEA NZE 2050 Aviation 84.0 103.9 63 tCO/million rpk Intensity IEA NZE 2050 Automotive 191.5 176.2 66 tCO/million vkm Intensity IEA NZE 2050 1 Our absolute and intensity emission metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector, which is a subset of our total loans and advances. For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide ('Mt COe') and intensity is measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide per exajoule ('Mt COe/Ej'); for the power and utilities sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour ('tCO/GWh'); for the cement sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide per tonne of cement ('tCO/t cement'); for the iron, steel and 2 2 aluminium sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide per tonne of metal ('tCO/t metal'); for the aviation sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide per million revenue passenger kilometres ('tCO/million rpk'); and for the automotive sector, it is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide per million vehicle kilometres ('tCO/million vkm').
2 Our power and utilities target units have been revised from our 2021 analysis, and the target has been revised from 0.14 Mt COe/TWh to 138 tCO/GWh due to 2 2 rounding. The target value remains unchanged.
3 W hile the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership Technology Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses.
52 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 20192020 2025 2030 tnemec t/2OCt Cement 2020 progress tCO2/t cement from baseline 20192020 2025 2030 e2OCtM Oil and gas 2020 progress Mt CO2e from baseline (9)% 20192020 2025 2030 hWG/2OCt Environmental Financed emissions continued When assessing the changes from 2019 Covid-19 pandemic led to anomalies in our global average, the baselines may be to 2020, it is important to emphasise the portfolio's financed emissions for 2020. the same.
long-term commitment that is needed to meet our 2030 interim targets and how changes For some sectors, our financed emissions We plan to report financed emissions and to exposure and market fluctuations impact baseline will be different from the Net Zero progress against our targets annually and to yearly updates. Movement from one year to Emissions by 2050 reference scenario be transparent in our disclosures about the the next may not reflect future trends for the baseline. Where we have applied an absolute methodologies applied. However, financed financed emissions of our portfolio, and as we reduction target such as for the oil and gas emissions figures may not be reconcilable or are at the beginning of our journey to track sector, and the target is defined as a comparable year on year, and targets may and measure progress, we believe it would be percentage reduction from the baseline they require recalibration as data, methodologies premature to infer future trends from the 2019 will be the same. Similarly, when the sector and reference scenarios develop.
to 2020 progress at this stage. In addition, the portfolio intensity is very similar to that of the Oil and gas Power and utilities Cement For the oil and gas sector, we cover all scopes For the power and utilities sector, we include We cover scope 1 and 2 for all companies with for upstream as well as integrated companies scope 1 and 2, and focus on power generation clinker and cement manufacturing facilities. In to help ensure we include the vast majority of only. We also follow the IEA Net Zero Emissions line with the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 CO and methane emissions created by crude by 2050 scenario and target an on-balance scenario, we target an on-balance sheet oil and natural gas extraction and consumption. sheet financed emissions intensity of 138 financed emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of In line with the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per carbon dioxide per tonne of cement ('tCO/t scenario, we target an absolute reduction of gigawatt hour ('tCO/GWh') by 2030, using 2019 cement') by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline.
34% in on-balance sheet financed emissions as our baseline. The power and utilities sector Some emission reductions can be achieved by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline. We believe is expected to expand significantly as the through energy efficiency. However, we believe decarbonising the energy system, and therefore electrification of transport, heating and other that to significantly reduce fuel and process our ability to meet our targets, requires activities will drive an increase in electricity emissions from cement manufacturing, and electrification of the economy, combined with a demand. To enable this growth through our ability to meet our targets, large-scale shift from consuming fossil fuels towards the low-emission sources of electricity, we have investments are required in new technologies, use of more renewable electricity and chosen an intensity target. We believe financing such as clinker substitution, alternative fuel use alternative fuels. for renewable electricity will need to increase such as bioenergy, and carbon capture use and significantly to help us meet our targets, storage. Our 2020 emission intensity stayed Due to data quality and modelling alongside smart grids and energy storage. level with 2019, as there were no significant improvements, we have revised our 2019 changes to the emission intensity of our clients.
baseline to 33.0 million tonnes of carbon dioxide Due to data quality and modelling The PCAF score for the cement sector is 2.2 ('Mt COe'). The sector's PCAF data quality improvements, we have revised our 2019 for scope 1 and 2 in 2019, which is higher score is 2.7 for scope 1 and 2, and 2.9 for scope baseline to 589.9 tCO/GWh, which is higher compared with other sectors, as we have 3 in 2019, indicating that we need to find better than the IEA global average. The PCAF score is reported emissions data for a large portion of data sources, such as reported and verified 3.3, for scope 1 and 2 in 2019, as many of our our clients, and have only needed to estimate emissions. Many clients report scope 1 and 2, smaller clients are not disclosing their scope 1 to emissions through production or revenue but for scope 3 we have had to estimate many 2 emissions. These have mostly been estimated proxies for the smaller clients in our portfolio.
data points using production and revenue using production or revenue, which will be proxies, in line with PCAF guidance. In 2020, replaced when we have reported and verified absolute financed emissions decreased 9%, emissions from clients. In 2020, the emissions mostly as a result of changes in our portfolio intensity of our portfolio decreased by 14% as a during the first year of the Covid-19 pandemic. result of clients moving their generation mix to lower emission sources and portfolio shifts.
Power and utilities2 2020 progress tCO2/GWh from baseline (14)% Key: Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario On-balance sheet financed emissions intensity 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 20192020 2025 2030 latem t/2OCt Iron, steel and aluminium3 2020 progress tCO2/t metal from baseline 11% 20192020 2025 2030 kpr noillim/2OCt Aviation 2020 progress tCO2/million rpk from baseline 24% 20192020 2025 2030 mkv noillim/2OCt ESG review | Environmental Financed emissions continued Iron, steel and aluminium Aviation Automotive We cover scope 1 and 2 for midstream iron, In the aviation sector, we included airlines' For the automotive sector, we look at scope 1, 2 steel and aluminium production. Due to the low scope 1 emissions and aircraft lessors' scope 3 and 3 emissions from the manufacturing of materiality of the aluminium sector's financed emissions, as we believe this captures direct vehicles, and tank-to-wheel exhaust pipe emissions within our portfolio, we have emissions from aircraft as the main source of emissions for light-duty vehicles. We excluded combined them with our iron and steel financed emissions. We exclude military and dedicated heavy-duty vehicles from our analysis, following emissions. For the iron, steel and aluminium cargo flights. As per the IEA Net Zero Emissions industry practice. We will consider including sector, we target an on-balance sheet financed by 2050 scenario, we target an on-balance them at a later stage of our analysis as data and emissions intensity of 1.05 (1.43) tonnes of sheet financed emissions intensity of 63 tonnes methodologies develop. We target an oncarbon dioxide per tonne of metal ('tCO/t of carbon dioxide per revenue passenger balance sheet financed emissions intensity of 66 metal') by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline. kilometre ('tCO/rpk') by 2030, using 2019 as our tonnes of carbon dioxide per vehicle kilometre We use the IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 baseline. To reach these intensity levels, and ('tCO/vkm') by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline.
scenario as our core target scenario, and have help meet our targets, we believe the sector This is in line with the IEA Net Zero Emissions by included the net zero-aligned Mission Possible needs significant policy support investments 2050 scenario, modified to match the share of Partnership Technology Moratorium as an into alternative fuels, such as sustainable new in-year vehicle sales for light-duty vehicles.
alternative scenario. We recognise that our aviation fuel, and new aircraft to reduce We believe decarbonisation of the automotive ability to meet our targets in so-called 'hard-to- emissions. Sustainable aviation fuel is currently sector, and therefore our ability to meet our abate' sectors is dependent on strong policy too costly and in limited supply, so the industry's targets, needs large-scale investments in new support to unlock widespread investment and decarbonisation efforts are highly dependent on electric vehicle and battery manufacturing the scaling up of crucial nascent technologies. partnerships between energy companies, plants, widespread charging infrastructure, and We will continue to monitor the progress in the airlines and aircraft manufacturers. Due to government policies to support electric vehicles.
uptake of low-carbon technologies, and assess the travel disruption caused by the Covid-19 Our 2020 intensity reduced by 8% as a result of real economy progress against the IEA and pandemic in 2020, emissions intensity figures clients manufacturing more efficient vehicles, Mission Possible Partnership scenarios. increased significantly as aeroplanes carried and the increased sales of electric vehicles. The The emissions intensity in 2020 rose due to fewer passengers on average. This can be PCAF score for the automotive sector is only increased financing to the aluminium sector, seen in the IEA numbers as well as our client 3.3 for scope 1 and 2, and 3.4 for scope 3 in which has a higher carbon intensity than that portfolio. For the aviation sector, the PCAF 2019, as most companies only report their of steel. The PCAF score is 2.5 in 2019, as only score is 2.8 for scope 1 and 2, and 2.8 for scope scope 1 and 2 emissions. We had to estimate a small number of clients have reported 3 in 2019, as emissions or production data is scope 3 emissions using vehicle production emissions, and for many we have had to available for most clients, although we continue numbers. Increased self-reporting of make estimates based on their revenue. to have a challenge with finding reported scope 3 emissions from clients would emissions from smaller firms. significantly improve data quality.
Automotive 2020 progress tCO2/million vkm from baseline (8)% Key: Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario On-balance sheet financed emissions intensity MPP Tech Moratorium Our analysis of shipping emissions As part of our work in 2022, we analysed financed emissions for the shipping sector to establish a baseline. During our analysis we noted significant data gaps in reported emissions and data from external vendors at the company level. For scope 1 emissions, which are typically the easiest to source, we would have needed to have made estimates using outstanding amounts rather than production or revenue indicators, which would have resulted in the least accurate data quality scoring. We have therefore chosen to defer setting a baseline and target for this sector until there is sufficient reliable data to support our work, allowing us to more accurately set a baseline and track progress towards net zero. We will continue to engage with strategic clients within the sector to encourage disclosure and discuss their transition plans. We believe the shipping industry will require significant policy support and innovation to allow for the use of lower emissions fuels in existing as well as new ships. On the supply side, the provision of low-carbon fuels will need to increase sufficiently to meet this new demand.
54 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Financed emissions continued Financed emissions The table below summarises the results of our assessment of financed emissions using 2019 and 2020 data.
On-balance sheet financed emissions - wholesale credit lending and project finance1,2 PCAF data quality score3,† Scope 1-2 Scope 3 Emissions Scope 1 Sector Year (Mt CO 2 )† (Mt CO 2 )† intensity and 2 Scope 3 Oil and gas4, 5 2019 3.7 29.3 72.2 2.7 2.9 2020 3.3 26.8 71 2.7 2.9 Power and utilities4,5 2019 12.1 N/A 589.9 3.3 N/A 2020 11.8 N/A 509.6 3.2 N/A Cement 2019 2.2 N/A 0.64 2.2 N/A 2020 1.3 N/A 0.64 2.3 N/A Iron, steel and aluminium 2019 3.2 N/A 1.8 2.5 N/A 2020 2.7 N/A 2 2.8 N/A Aviation 2019 6.2 0.11 84 2.8 2.8 2020 4.9 0.08 103.9 2.6 3 Automotive 2019 0.11 4.0 191.5 3.3 3.4 2020 0.14 4.9 176.2 3.2 3.3 1 Total amount of short-term finance excluded for all sectors listed is $9.3bn in 2019 and $7.6bn in 2020 2 Total loans and advances analysed in 2019 were $38.3bn representing 1.7% of wholesale credit and lending and project finance at 31 December 2019, and in 2020 were $34.7bn representing 1.7% of wholesale credit and lending and project finance at 31 December 2020.
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 In the Annual Report and Accounts 2021 the units for power and utilities were reported last year as MtCOe, and are now read Mt CO. Oil and gas absolute 2 2 emissions are measured in MtCOe. This year we amended the units for the power and utilities sector from Mt COe/TWh' to tCO/GWh to align to market practice.
2 2 2 While the target value remains unchanged this has led to a revision in the figure reported from 0.14 Mt COe/TWh' to 138 tCO/GWh.
2 2 5 O ur 2019 emissions for our oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors have been revised due to changes in data impacting drawn amounts of client lending, and amendments to the assumptions governing the in-scope client population.
† D ata is subject to independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions Methodology and PwC's limited assurance report, which are available at Our analysis of facilitated emissions In March 2022, we said we would set capital markets emissions targets for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors based on the industry reporting standard from the PCAF once published. We have chosen to defer setting targets for facilitated emissions until the PCAF standard for capital markets is published, which is expected in 2023. We had intended to disclose facilitated emissions for 2019 and 2020 for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors for transparency, as we did last year. However, following internal and external assurance reviews performed during the year, we identified certain data and process limitations and have deferred the publication of our facilitated emissions for 2019 and 2020 for these two sectors while additional verification procedures are performed. We aim to provide these disclosures as soon as practicable in 2023.
We continue to monitor the developments in industry standards for the publication of such emissions and associated targets, and, as mentioned above, we will seek to align to the PCAF standard when published. However, we will aim to provide transparency on our 2019 and 2020 facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors as they become available, which may be in advance of the PCAF standard being available.
ESG review | Environmental Financed emissions continued Embedding financed emissions into our business Our net zero ambition is underpinned by our We are placing climate and sustainability at the relationships with customers and collective heart of our engagement with customers, and engagement, so that we are able to support in particular those customers with the greatest our customers to take action to address potential to effect change. In 2022, we climate change in their own activities. requested and assessed transition plans for EU and OECD managed clients in scope of our To achieve this, we aim to embed how thermal coal phase-out policy. We have also we manage and assess financed emissions requested and are assessing transition plans within our financing portfolios to provide for our major oil and gas clients (see page 49).
a basis for informing client engagement Backing green SMEs in and business management decisions from We aim to provide and facilitate $750bn to a climate perspective. $1tn of sustainable finance and investment the UK by 2030 to support our customers in their In 2022, we developed an operating model transition to net zero and a sustainable future.
Panthera Group, a family-run across our Global Sustainability teams to In 2022, we also started to develop an construction company, launched strengthen our processes, systems, controls approach for allocating financing to scale EnviroHoard, the UK's first construction and governance. The Global Sustainability technologies critical to reach net zero.
hoarding system to be verified as net function also established a Sustainability zero carbon. In March, we supported Centre of Excellence, a team of sustainability Our own climate transition plan will bring the firm with the first ever loan through specialists with deep subject matter expertise together our financed emissions targets and our $500m Green SME Fund, which we on new climate technologies, climate analytics climate strategy, with how we plan to embed announced at COP26 as part of our and transition planning and assessment, to this into our processes, infrastructure, commitment to supporting small and help us fulfil our net zero commitments and governance and engagement.
medium-sized businesses in their serve our customers.
transition to net zero. Panthera will use The next section provides further detail on how the loan to grow its business in the UK.
The Global Sustainability Centre of Excellence, we are embedding net zero considerations into In 2022, Panthera reduced 446 tonnes together with the Group Risk and Compliance, our customer engagement and unlocking of carbon emissions through its and Global Finance functions, have continued finance to support our customers on their installations, and set up a partnership to develop our approach, including working to transition to net zero and a sustainable future.
with Circular Ecology and Trees for embed financed emissions into our business Cities to help offset the carbon impact activities and culture. We have strengthened of its installations.
our climate data and analytics capability to help inform decision making and portfolio management, as well as expanded the resources to support business engagement.
Reducing emissions in our assets under management In July 2021, our asset management Our baseline represents the emissions metrics and methodologies required to align business, HSBC Asset Management, signed associated with our investing activities portfolios to net zero.
up to the Net Zero Asset Managers initiative, in terms of emissions per dollar invested which encourages investment firms to relevant of the assets under management in The PCAF data quality score for our baseline commit to manage assets in line with the scope for this assessment. We will review emissions was 2.63. Data is subject to limited attainment of net zero emissions by 2050. our interim target at least every five years, assurance by PwC in accordance with with a view to increasing the proportion International Standard on Assurance In November 2022, HSBC Asset Management of assets under management covered until Engagements 3000 (Revised) 'Assurance announced its ambition of reducing scope 1 100% of assets are included. Implementation Engagements other than Audits or Reviews and 2 carbon emissions by 58% by 2030 for of our net zero targets remains subject to of Historical Financial Information', and with 38% of its total assets under management, consultation with our key stakeholders. We respect of the greenhouse emissions, in consisting of listed equity and corporate fixed plan to stay actively engaged to help support accordance with International Standard on income, which amounted to $193.9bn at our investors on their own decarbonisation Assurance Engagements 3410 'Assurance 31 December 2019. goals, and continue to apply resources in Engagements on Greenhouse Gas the development of climate solutions. Statements', issued by the International A baseline year of 2019 was chosen for our Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
calculations as it offered a more realistic To support the development of HSBC Asset For the methodology, PwC's limited picture of the level of carbon emissions Management's climate strategy and goal to assurance report, and details on HSBC Asset intensity than the period after the pandemic. deliver on its target, it has chosen to align to Management's net zero ambition, see www.
Our baseline for the emission intensity of our the Institutional Investors Group on Climate assetmanagement.hsbc.com/net-zero.
portfolio in 2019 was 131tCoe/M$ invested, Change's net zero investment framework, which includes scope 1 and 2 emissions of which was created for investors to provide companies in our portfolio. a common approach around the actions, 56 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Supporting customers through transition TCFD We understand that financial institutions have - We supported Panthera Group, a family-run a critical role to play in achieving the transition construction company, to finance and grow Sustainable finance and investment to a net zero global economy. We believe the the UK's first construction hoarding system We define sustainable finance and most significant contribution we can make is to be verified as zero carbon, (see page 56). investment as any form of financial service by mobilising finance to support our portfolio - We expanded our green mortgage offering that integrates ESG criteria into business of customers in their transition to decarbonise. to our retail customers in Hong Kong, or investment decisions. This includes mainland China, India and Türkiye, as well financing, investing and advisory activities Mobilising sustainable finance for our as electric vehicle and energy efficiency that support the achievement of UN customers loans to customers in Hong Kong, Egypt Sustainable Development Goals ('SDGs'), Given our global presence and relationships and Argentina. including but not limited to the aims of the with our customers across industries, we Paris Agreement on climate change.
- We committed to working collaboratively recognise the role we can play in catalysing with the government of Egypt in its Nexus the global transition to net zero. We are well The SDGs, also known as the Global Goals, of Food, Water and Energy programme to positioned to help finance the transition were adopted by all UN member states in identify ways to use scarce public finances in developing and emerging economies, 2015 as a universal call to action to end effectively and efficiently, and help raise mobilising capital to help enable sustainable poverty, achieve gender equality, reduce private finance to support priority projects business models and an inclusive, just and inequality, protect the planet and ensure from its national climate change strategy.
resilient transition. that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030.
As part of the Just Energy Transition In 2022, we continued to expand the horizons Partnership, which aims to mobilise capital of sustainable finance through our products, We have reviewed and updated these towards emerging and developing economies services and partnerships to help enable definitions to reflect our updated climate to support their national climate strategies, we emissions reduction in the real economy: ambition, which is available at agreed to support the facilitation of at least com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible- $10bn of private sector financing for projects
- We launched a $5bn sustainable finance business/esg-reporting-centre.
in Indonesia and $7.8bn for projects in scheme to support businesses of all sizes Vietnam over the next three to five years.
to transition to low-carbon operations in China's Greater Bay Area, with successful In addition, we were also mandated to act on $210.7bn loan applicants entitled to a range of 12 ESG-related government bonds, including additional services including training, inaugural issuances for the governments of subsidised third-party assessments and assistance from a newly formed team Singapore, Canada and Uruguay. In 2022, Cumulative progress since 2020 on with sustainable financing expertise. we secured six awards at the Environmental our ambition to provide and facilitate Finance Bond Awards, revealing the high sustainable finance and investment.
- We created a sustainable supply regard in the market for our structuring and (Ambition: $750bn to $1tn by 2030) chain finance programme for apparel engagement work across green, social and company PVH Corp in the US to finance sustainability bonds during 2021. In the IFR environmentally and socially friendly Awards 2022, we were named ESG Financing production at its manufacturing facilities House of the Year. We were also recognised (see page 97). by Euromoney as the Best Bank for Sustainable Finance in Asia for the fifth consecutive year, and in the Middle East for the fourth.
Embedding net zero transition into our client engagement In 2022, we requested and assessed transition plans for EU and OECD managed clients in scope of our thermal coal phase-out policy. We also requested and are assessing transition plans for our major oil and gas clients. In 2023, we expect to complete assessments for remaining clients in scope of our thermal coal phase-out policy. Similarly, we expect to complete assessments for major oil and gas and power and utilities clients globally as well as other clients in EU and OECD markets in scope of our energy policy.
Our assessments consider historical emissions and disclosures, emissions reduction targets, details of transition plans to achieve targets, and evidence of activities in line with these plans.
Our assessment framework helps us to understand our clients' transition plans, develop an engagement strategy to help support them on their transition journey and help us achieve our net zero ambition. We acknowledge that our assessment of client transition plans is in the initial stages and our engagement with clients on their plans and progress will need to continue to be embedded.
ESG review | Environmental Supporting customers through transition continued Financing the transition Cumulative progress We aim to help our customers transition 2022 2021 2020 since 2020 to net zero and a sustainable future through Sustainable finance summary1 ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) providing and facilitating between $750bn Balance sheet-related transactions provided 42.1 26.0 10.3 78.4 and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Our sustainable finance Capital markets/advisory (facilitated) 34.6 48.7 30.0 113.3 ambition has promoted green, sustainable Investments (assets under management - flows) 7.5 7.7 3.7 19.0 and socially-focused business alongside sustainable infrastructure and energy Total contribution2 84.2 82.4 44.1 210.7 systems, and enhanced investor capital Sustainable finance classification by theme through sustainable investment.
Green use of proceeds3 29.0 27.1 18.8 74.9 Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and facilitated $185.3bn of sustainable finance, Social use of proceeds3 6.7 11.3 9.7 27.8 $19.0bn of sustainable investment and $6.4bn Other sustainable use of proceeds3,4 12.6 11.7 8.3 32.7 of sustainable infrastructure, as defined in our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Sustainability-linked5 28.4 24.6 3.5 56.5 Dictionary 2022. This included 36% where Sustainable investments - Asset Management6 7.5 7.7 3.7 19.0 the use of proceeds were dedicated to green financing, 13% to social financing, and 15% to Total contribution2,7 84.2 82.4 44.1 210.7 other sustainable financing. It also included 1 T his table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2022, 27% of sustainability-linked financing and 9% which includes green, social and sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits of net new investments flows managed and agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided, the proportional share of facilitated capital markets/ distributed on behalf of investors. advisory activities and the net new flows of sustainable investments within assets under management. In 2022, green liabilities were removed from the data dictionary, which resulted in $0.3bn removed from the published 2021 cumulative total.
In 2022, our underwriting of green, social, 2 T he $210.7bn cumulative progress since 2020 is subject to limited assurance by PwC in accordance with sustainability and sustainability-linked bonds International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) 'Assurance Engagements other than Audits for clients decreased in line with the overall or Reviews of Historical Financial Information'. For our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary market, although remained at 15% of our 2022 and PwC's limited assurance report, see total bond issuances. On-balance sheet esg-reporting-centre.
sustainable lending transactions increased 3 For green, social and other sustainable use of proceeds, our capital markets products are aligned to either by 53%, compared with 2021. The ICMA's Green Bond Principles, Social Bond Principles or Sustainability Bond Guidelines. Our lending labelled products are aligned to the LMA's Green Loan Principles, the LMA's Social Loan Principles or our sustainable outstanding sustainable finance on-balance trade instruments, which align the use of proceeds to the UN SDGs.
sheet position was in excess of $24bn at 4 Sustainability use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes.
31 December 2022.
5 Our sustainability-linked-labelled products are aligned to either the ICMA Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles or LMA Sustainability-Linked Loan Principles. The coupon or interest rate is linked to sustainability key Sustainability-linked bonds are a recent performance indicators and the funds can be used for general purposes. Of the cumulative total of $56.5bn, innovation in the debt capital markets, which $10.1bn relates to sustainability linked bonds and $46.4bn relates to sustainability linked loans. Within the allow investors to manage their sustainability sustainability linked loans, $13.1bn relates to lending to customers within the six high transition risk sectors strategies by linking targets, and progress (i.e. automobiles, chemicals, construction and building materials, Metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities) as described on page 223.
towards them, to the issuers' financing costs.
6 Net flows of HSBC-owned sustainable investment funds that have been assessed against the Sustainable These products do not require definitions of Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2022.
use-of-proceeds as they are linked to issuers' 7 A dditional detailed information in relation to our sustainable finance and investment progress can be found in broader sustainability commitments.
the ESG Data Pack.
Issuer commitments and strategies continue Our approach to financing net zero Our data dictionary defining our sustainable to develop and be included in medium- to In 2022, we started developing a strategy to finance and investments continues to evolve, long-term sustainability plans. We expect help us orient how we allocate our financing and is reviewed annually to take into account the evolving standards, taxonomies and practices we that sustainability-linked bonds will become solutions and capital to support our clients' deem appropriate. Our review involves reviewing increasingly meaningful for transparency in transition to net zero and help deliver a and strengthening our product definitions, where issuer performance against science-based significant decarbonisation impact to the appropriate adding and deleting qualifying transition pathways and other sustainability global economy. The approach, based on the products, making enhancements to our internal goals. We have supported customers within IEA's Net Zero by 2050 scenario, identifies the standards, and evolving reporting and governance. Our progress will be published each the high transition risk sectors to issue infrastructure, technologies and new business year, and we will seek to continue for it to be sustainability-linked bonds which support models critical for industries to transition to net independently assured.
the transition to the net zero economy and zero. We recognise that we will need to adapt The detailed definitions of the contributing a sustainable future. our capabilities in specific products and activities for sustainable finance and investment sectors to capture business opportunities and are available in our revised Sustainable Finance We are working closely with industry bodies, help finance the transition. In 2022, we made and Investment Data Dictionary 2022. For our such as the International Capital Markets several investments to play a catalytic role, ESG Data Pack, Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary and third-party Association ('ICMA'), to establish a robust including through Pentagreen Capital, an limited assurance report, see set of standards for the market. The ICMA innovative financing vehicle set up in who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/ Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles provide partnership with Temasek, to accelerate esg-reporting-centre.
guidelines on what is core, material and sustainable infrastructure in south-east Asia, relevant in terms of key performance and with Breakthrough Energy Catalyst to gain indicators, and provides advice on how expertise in nascent, 'new-economy, sectors targets should be assessed. aligned with our clients' net zero ambitions.
58 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Supporting customers through transition continued Responsible and sustainable investment In 2022, HSBC Asset Management's fixed First ESG underwriting We offer a broad suite of ESG capabilities income, equity and stewardship teams held across asset management, global markets, over 1,000 meetings with companies in our guide for life and health wealth, private banking and securities services, portfolios. These included discussions on enabling institutional and individual investors to climate-related matters, with more than 60 insurance generate financial returns, manage risk and of these having specific, targeted outcomes pursue ESG-related opportunities. with climate objectives. We continue to Our insurance business, HSBC Life, engage with issuers, encouraging the co-sponsored and co-led the first Our Asset Management business seeks reporting of emissions data, the setting of ESG underwriting guide for the life to drive innovation at scale, and bring new emissions reduction targets, the assessment and health insurance sector. The guide propositions to the market for investors, of climate risk, and the development of robust was published by the United Nations including sustainable exchange-traded funds transition strategies. Environment Programme Finance and lower-carbon investment solutions. We Initiative ('UNEP FI') Principles for are committed to further developing our We expanded our investment offering for Sustainable Insurance, a set of sustainable product range across asset classes private banking and wealth clients with the principles endorsed by the United and strategies, as well as enhancing our launch of 22 sustainable investing mutual Nations and the insurance industry.
existing product set for ESG criteria where it is funds and exchange-traded funds in 2022.
in the investors' interests to do so. In 2022, we We offer a range of sustainable investment This guide, which was published in June launched 24 funds with a sustainable focus. products across other asset classes, including 2022, provides a framework for life and equities, fixed income, discretionary and health insurers to evaluate a range of In our aim to support the transition to more alternatives. We enhanced our ESG thematic ESG risks and factors on the mortality, sustainable ways of dealing with resources products offering linked to indices. For morbidity, longevity and hospitalisation and waste, through the circular economy, example, we collaborated with Euronext and risks when underwriting.
HSBC Asset Management launched the HSBC Iceberg Datalab to design the first broad-based Global Investment Fund ('HGIF') Global Equity biodiversity screened equity index family. These include risk mitigation strategies Circular Economy fund. alongside best practices for insurers At HSBC Life, our insurance business, we are to consider.
To support its net zero ambition, HSBC Asset focused on ensuring our customers have more Management continued to add to the range of access to ESG investment fund options The guide was put together in products aligned to Paris-aligned benchmarks, aligned to their ESG preferences. ESG funds collaboration with a global team of launching two exchange-traded funds in 2022 invest only in companies with strong ESG sustainability experts from 11 other that invest in emerging markets and Asia- credentials or in key ESG-related areas. We member companies of the UNEP FI Pacific. These benchmarks' underlying assets increased the availability of ESG investment Principles for Sustainable Insurance.
are selected in such a manner that the fund options within our investment-linked Its purpose is to reinforce the key role resulting benchmark portfolio's greenhouse products. During 2022, we launched in Hong insurers need to play in helping to solve gas emissions are aligned with the long-term Kong a new protection-linked plan with three the major ESG challenges of our time, global warming target of the Paris Agreement. ESG fund choices now available, and we such as the spread of infectious launched our first ESG fund in Mexico. diseases, biodiversity and nature loss, social inequality, and mental health and well-being.
Accelerating growth in geothermal and recovered energy Ormat Technologies Inc., which has been operating in renewable energy production for more than 50 years, has developed expertise and global experience in the supply and development of geothermal, recovered energy and energy storage solutions. We supported Ormat in June 2022 with the issuance of a $431m green convertible bond, the proceeds of which will support Ormat grow its business and develop its renewable green energy projects.
Ormat now has a total generating portfolio of approximately 1.1 gigawatts, including a geothermal and solar generation portfolio across the US, Kenya, Guatemala, Indonesia, Honduras and Guadeloupe, as well as holding an energy storage portfolio in the US.
ESG review | Environmental Unlocking climate solutions and innovations TCFD We understand the need to find new solutions Asset Management offers investment We continue to unlock new climate solutions, to increase the pace of change if the world is solutions that generate competitive risk- focusing on supporting innovation in critical to achieve the Paris Agreement's goal of being adjusted returns for investors, and nature- areas such as green technologies. In January net zero by 2050. enhancing ecosystems to help protect 2022, we announced our investment of $100m biodiversity and accelerate the transition as an anchor partner in Breakthrough Energy We are working closely with a range of to net zero. Catalyst, a programme that uses private-public partners to accelerate investment in natural capital to accelerate the development of four resources, technology and sustainable In December 2022, Climate Asset Management critical climate technologies: direct air capture, infrastructure to help reduce emissions and announced it had received commitments of clean hydrogen, long-duration energy storage address climate change. over $650m for its two strategies: and sustainable aviation fuel.
Sustainable infrastructure - the Natural Capital Strategy, which invests Our philanthropic programme, Climate Addressing climate change requires the in agriculture, forestry and environmental Solutions Partnership, aims to scale up climate rapid development of a new generation of assets, with the aim to deliver impact at innovation ventures and nature-based sustainable infrastructure, particularly for scale alongside long-term financial returns; solutions, as well as help the energy sector emerging markets. and transition towards renewable sources in Asia
- the Nature Based Carbon Strategy, which (for further details, see page 84).
During 2022, we demonstrated our targets nature restoration and conservation commitment to catalysing financing for projects in developing economies, Our climate technology venture debt and sustainable infrastructure projects, with the prioritising community benefits while venture capital platforms invest in companies launch of Pentagreen Capital, a debt financing generating high-quality carbon credits. that are developing innovative technological vehicle we set up in partnership with Temasek solutions that help companies and (see below). One of Climate Asset Management's governments understand, track and reduce first investments was the Restore Africa their greenhouse gas emissions. We We continue to take a leading role in the Programme, in partnership with the Global expanded our venture debt platform to FAST-Infra initiative, which we helped EverGreening Alliance, announced in support climate technology hardware and conceive, working with the IFC, OECD, the November 2021. The programme, which software companies that are growing rapidly.
World Bank's Global Infrastructure Facility and is the world's largest community-based In 2022, we achieved our initial goal to fund the Climate Policy Initiative, under the auspices land-restoration project, aims to benefit $100m to climate technology companies of the One Planet Lab. Through the FAST-Infra 1.5 million smallholder farmers and their through this platform, and consequently initiative, we helped launch in 2021 the communities through the restoration of up to increased our commitment to $250m. In Sustainable Infrastructure (SI) Label - a 2 million hectares of degraded land across six 2022, we committed an additional $100m consistent, globally applicable labelling sub-Saharan countries. The programme has to fund women and minority entrepreneurs system designed to identify and evaluate started being implemented in Kenya, Uganda through our venture debt platform.
sustainable infrastructure assets. The initiative and Malawi, with plans for Zambia, Tanzania continues to grow, with the appointment in and Ethiopia to follow in 2023. HSBC Asset Management also launched November 2022 of a consortium with global a venture capital strategy that invests in expertise in sustainability standards, global Climate Asset Management is a founding transformative early stage companies enabling finance, software and data platforms, to member of the Natural Capital Investment decarbonisation and de-pollution of industries.
manage the secretariat of the SI Label, so Alliance, whose 15-strong membership of The strategy invests across four investment the label becomes an enduring and widely investment firms aims to have mobilised $10bn themes: power transformation, transport adopted standard. towards nature-based economic themes. electrification, supply chain sustainability and climate risk mitigation. We seeded the Natural capital as an emerging Backing new technology and innovation strategy with capital in November 2021, asset class Addressing climate change requires and it has since invested in three start-up Climate Asset Management, a joint venture we innovative ideas. By connecting financing companies. HSBC Asset Management launched with Pollination in 2020, forms part with fresh thinking, we can help climate continues to actively fundraise for this of our goal to unlock new climate solutions. solutions to increase in scale to support strategy, aiming to raise additional funds Combining expertise in investment sustainable growth. from institutional and private wealth clients management and natural capital, Climate over the course of 2023.
Accelerating sustainable infrastructure in Asia In August 2022, we officially launched Pentagreen Capital, a sustainable infrastructure debt financing vehicle set up in partnership with Temasek. Pentagreen's goal is to accelerate the development of sustainable infrastructure in Asia by removing the barriers that can prevent marginally bankable projects from accessing capital. With a combined $150m of seed capital committed by the founding partners, the Singapore-based company aims to provide more than $1bn of loans over the next five years, targeting opportunities initially in southeast Asia. Its primary focus will be on clean transport, renewable energy and energy storage, and water and waste management.
60 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Biodiversity and natural capital strategy We recognise that achieving net zero goes - We participated in a pilot test of a draft - Through the Climate Solutions Partnership, hand in hand with halting and reversing nature version of the Taskforce on Nature-related our philanthropic collaboration with the loss. Nature loss, which refers to the decline Financial Disclosures ('TNFD') framework World Resources Institute and WWF, we of natural capital, ecosystem services and for risk and opportunity management and issued two reports on the hurdles and biodiversity, is one of the greatest systemic disclosure, which helped us understand its success factors for scaling up nature-based risks to the global economy and the health implications and provide feedback ahead solutions.
of people and the planet. According to The of its release in September 2023.
Nature Conservancy, natural climate solutions - We intend to publish a new deforestation For further details of our approach to nature and can provide up to 37% of the emission policy, informed by scientific and related initiatives, see our Statement on Nature in the ESG reporting centre at reductions needed by 2030. At the same time international guidance, in 2023. For further who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/ climate change is accelerating nature loss, and details of our biodiversity and natural esg-reporting-centre.
consequently the ability for nature to mitigate capital-related policies, see 'Our approach climate change impacts. to sustainability policies' on page 65. Our presence in environmentally sensitive areas We understand we need to do more to embed Reducing nature loss As a global organisation, our branches, offices nature-related issues into our sustainability We are making progress with the investment and data centres may be located in - or near policies and climate transition plan, and we and financing of biodiversity and nature-based - areas of water stress and/or protected areas are committed to strengthening our risk solutions through client products and services of biodiversity, as we support our customers management approach and engaging with and partnerships. In 2022, these included: and communities in these locations.
our customers.
- In August 2022, our asset management Approximately 58.5% of our global offices, Understanding our exposure business, HSBC Asset Management, branches and data centres are located in areas In 2022, we made progress with launched a biodiversity exchange-traded identified as being subject to high and very understanding how to assess and monitor fund that enables investors to incorporate high water stress, accounting for 39.7% of nature-related risks, as well as how to create sustainable considerations within their our annual water consumption. These are effective transition plans with the aim of portfolios (see below). predominantly urban or city centre locations halting our contribution to nature loss from with large, concentrated populations. Our
- Our Global Private Banking business our business activities: industry is a low user of potable water, and we launched a biodiversity strategy for our have implemented measures to further reduce private bank clients in Hong Kong and
- We conducted analysis on how reliant our water consumption through the installation of Singapore, which focuses on investing large corporate clients were on ecosystem flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or zero in companies that are well positioned services, including the nature-related flush sanitary fittings.
to harness, regenerate and protect benefits crucial for the provision of food and biodiversity through the circular and drinking water, which demonstrated that our In addition, 1.6% of our global office, branch bio-based economy.
clients were highly dependent on water and data centre portfolio lies in protected availability. areas and areas of biodiversity. We strive
- To improve our understanding of the through our design, construction and potential credit risks that nature-related risks operational standards to ensure that, where pose to our customers, we worked with the possible, our premises do not adversely affect Cambridge Institute on Sustainability the environment or natural resources in Leadership, by evaluating the impact of these areas.
three months of water shortage on a sample of our customer portfolio comprising heavy industry companies in east Asia.
Building biodiversity risk awareness into ETFs Asset owners and managers have a role to play in addressing potential transition and physical risks. Our asset management business, HSBC Asset Management, launched the first of its kind biodiversity screened exchange-traded fund, which provides investors with the opportunity to consider biodiversity risk factors in their portfolios. This exchange-traded fund tracks the Euronext ESG Biodiversity Screened Index series, which was jointly developed by HSBC, Euronext and Iceberg Data Lab. The Biodiversity Footprint Score excludes companies from the index that do not sufficiently consider biodiversity impacts as well as those with poor ESG credentials and/or business activities deemed harmful towards biodiversity.
ESG review | Environmental Our approach to our own operations TCFD Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank We are tracking the impact on our emissions Engaging with our supply chain is to achieve net zero carbon emissions in from our colleagues working from home, as Our supply chain is critical to achieving our net our operations and supply chain by 2030 they continue to embrace more flexible ways zero ambitions, and we are partnering with our or sooner. of working. We calculated the electricity used suppliers on this journey. In 2020, we began by our colleagues working from home was 5% the three-year process of encouraging our Reduce, replace and remove of our total electricity consumption in 2022. largest suppliers to make their own carbon We have three elements to our strategy: This only includes energy consumption from commitments, and to disclose their emissions reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first the IT equipment and lighting. We do not via the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure focus on reducing carbon emissions from report employee home working emissions Project) supply chain programme. The target consumption, and then replacing remaining in our scope 1 and 2 performance data. for 2022 was for suppliers representing 60% emissions with low-carbon alternatives in line of total supplier spend to have completed with the Paris Agreement. We plan to remove Business travel and employee commuting the CDP questionnaire. In total, suppliers the remaining emissions that cannot be In 2022, our travel emissions remained below representing 63.5% of total supplier spend reduced or replaced by procuring, in 50% of pre-pandemic levels in 2019, with completed the CDP questionnaire.
accordance with prevailing regulatory international travel restrictions remaining for requirements, high-quality offsets at a much of the year in key Asia markets, slowing We will continue to engage with our supply later stage. the return to business travel. We are closely chain through CDP, and through direct managing the gradual resumption of travel discussions with our suppliers on how they Our energy consumption through internal reporting and review of can further support our transition to net zero.
In October 2020, we announced our ambition emissions, and through the introduction of to reduce our energy consumption by 50% internal carbon budgets, in line with our aim In 2022, we also formalised our supply by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, and in 2022 to halve travel emissions by 2030, compared chain sustainability strategy through the we achieved 24%. We plan to do this by with pre-pandemic levels. With hybrid working update of our supplier code of conduct optimising the use of our real estate portfolio, embedded across the organisation, the use and the development of our sustainable and carrying out a strategic reduction in our of virtual working practices has reduced the procurement procedures. The new procedures office space and data centres. We are using need for our colleagues to travel to meet with set out the minimum requirements and new technology and emerging products to other colleagues and customers. We continue operational information required to help make our spaces more energy efficient, such to focus on reducing the environmental impact ensure our sustainability objectives relating to as in the UK, where an additive to our boiler from the vehicles we use in our global climate change, the environment, human systems helped make heating in our branches markets, and accelerate the use of electric rights, and diversity and inclusion are clearly 13% more efficient. vehicles. In 2022, we reduced the company addressed in the way that we operate and car fleet size by 24%. We are now aiming to conduct business with suppliers.
As part of our ambition to achieve 100% ensure that all new vehicles ordered are fully renewable power across our operations by electric or hybrid vehicles where possible. Focus on natural resources 2030, we continue to look for opportunities to Alongside our net zero operations ambition, procure green energy in each of our markets. our aim is to be a responsible consumer A key challenge remains the limited of natural resources. Through design, opportunity to pursue power purchase construction and operational standards, agreements or green tariffs in key markets we strive to ensure that, wherever possible, due to regulations. our premises do not adversely affect the environment or natural resources. We have identified specific focus areas including waste, paper and sustainable diets, and are exploring key opportunities to reduce our wider environmental impact over the coming decade.
Our environmental and sustainability management policies Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary across geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported by Corporate Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management, ensuring HSBC's properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on the environment. Detailed design considerations documented in our Global Engineering Standards aim to reduce or avoid depletion of critical resources like energy, water, land and raw materials. Suppliers are required to adhere to strict environmental management principles and reduce their impact on the environment in which they operate.
62 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Our approach to our own operations continued Emissions from our energy and travel In 2022, we collected data on energy use Energy and travel greenhouse gas in 2022 and business travel for our operations in 28 emissions in tonnes COe We report our emissions following the countries and territories, which accounted for 2022 2021 Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which incorporates approximately 92.4% of our FTEs. To estimate the scope 2 market-based emissions the emissions of our operations in entities Scope 11 19,000 22,000 methodology. We report greenhouse gas where we have operational control and a small emissions resulting from the energy used in presence, we scale up the emissions data from Scope 21 224,000 307,000 our buildings and employees' business travel. 92.4% to 100%. We then apply emission uplift Scope 3 (category 6) Due to the nature of our primary business, rates to reflect uncertainty concerning the business travel1 42,000 12,000 carbon dioxide is the main type of greenhouse quality and coverage of emission measurement gas applicable to our operations. While the and estimation. This is consistent with both the Total 285,000 341,000 amount is immaterial, our current reporting Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Included energy UK 9,000 10,000 also incorporates methane and nitrous oxide Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty for completeness. We do not report employee Management in National Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes home working emissions in our scope 1 and 2 Inventories and our internal analysis of data COe per FTE performance data. Our environmental data for coverage and quality. 2 our own operations is based on a 12-month 2022 2021 period to 30 September. For further details on our methodology and relevant environmental key facts, see the ESG Total 1.30 1.52 Data Pack at In 2022, we continued to decrease our emissions from our energy consumption and Energy consumption in kWh in 000s travel, achieving a 58.5% reduction compared 2022 2021 with our 2019 baseline. This was mainly attributed to travel restrictions and the Total Group 797,000 833,000 reduction of usage of our buildings due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We also implemented UK only 222,000 227,000 over 400 energy conservation measures that amounted to an estimated energy avoidance in 1 Data in 2022 is subject to PwC's limited assurance excess of 11.9 million kWh and increased our report in accordance with International Standard consumption of renewable electricity to 48.3%. on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting Guideline 2022 and third-party limited assurance report at www.
hsbc.com/our-approach/esg-information/ esg-reporting-and-policies.
Emissions from our supply chain in 2022 Emissions (tonnes COe) Data quality score1 Scope 3 categories Year Scope 1-2 Scope 3 Total Scope 1-2 Scope 3 Category 1 - Purchased goods and services 2, 3 2022 218,000 648,000 866,000 3.1 3.3 2021 252,000 617,000 869,000 3.0 3.3 Category 2 - Capital goods 2, 3 2022 30,000 114,000 144,000 3.1 3.4 2021 31,000 96,000 127,000 3.1 3.3 The data we receive through our engagement have applied a data quality score to the intensity of our suppliers. The CDP-provided with CDP has enabled us to report our supply sources of data we used to determine industry averages rose, increasing the chain emissions for the first time. Our counterparty emissions. Our initial supply emissions for our suppliers where we do not methodology uses supplier emissions data chain emission figures may require updating have emissions data. However, in 2022 there where we have it from 500 of our largest as data availability changes over time and was a decrease in carbon intensity of suppliers suppliers, through CDP. Where we do not methodology and climate science evolve. who disclose their emissions compared with have emissions data for suppliers, we use For further details, see our GHG Reporting 2021, particularly in servers and data centres.
industry average carbon intensities and spend Guidance. While the carbon intensity of our supply chain data to define the contribution to our supply decreased, a rise in spend on services in 2022 chain emissions. As more of our suppliers In 2022, emissions from our supply chain led to a 1% increase in emissions compared report their emissions, we should be able increased by 16% compared with 2019, as with 2021.
to include more accurate data and fewer a result of an increase in spend - particularly in industry averages in the calculation. We IT services - and a rise in the average carbon 1 D ata quality scores where 1 is high and 5 is low, based on the quality of emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC supplier spend and is in line with HSBC's financed emissions reporting methodology 2 Supply chain emissions calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry averages.
3 Data in 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 for scope 3 (purchased goods and service) and scope 3 (capital goods) is subject to PwC's limited assurance report in accordance with International Standard on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting Guideline 2022 and third-party limited assurance report at ESG review | Environmental Our approach to climate risk TCFD Managing risk for our stakeholders Climate risk relates to the financial and Group-wide risk management framework. Our management business. In the table below, we non-financial impacts that may arise as a most material exposure to climate risk relates set out our duties to our stakeholders in our result of climate change and the move to to corporate and retail client financing activity four most material roles.
a greener economy. We manage climate within our banking portfolio. We also have risk across all our businesses and are significant responsibilities in relation to asset For further details of our approach to climate risk, incorporating climate considerations within ownership by our insurance business, see 'ESG risk' on page 139 and 'Climate risk' on page 221.
our traditional risk types in line with our employee pension plans and asset Banking Employee pensions Asset management Insurance We manage the climate risk in our Our pension plans manage climate Climate risk management is a key We consider climate risk in our banking portfolios through our risk risk in line with their fiduciary feature of our investment decision portfolio of assets.
appetite and policies for financial duties towards members and local making and portfolio management and non-financial risks. regulatory requirements. approach.
Climate risk This helps enable us to identify We monitor climate risk exposure We also engage with companies We have established an evolving opportunities to support our internally for our largest plans on topics related to climate ESG programme to meet changing customers, while continuing to based on asset sector allocation change. external expectations and meet stakeholder expectations. and carbon emissions data where customer demands.
available.
Customers Employees Customers InvestorsCustEommpelrosyeesCommCuunsittoEiemmseprlsoInyveeesstorsR go e v g e u r lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ayIs nnedvee CssotmormsunitiCeSsuusptopmliIenerrvsseCstoomCrR gsumo esv gtuoe unmr lin atiet meorssr e s n Et a s nmdp loCyeoemsmR go euv gEne umirtlSn aipeut mslopor epys nle it aees nrssd InCvuessR gttooeovmgresuer l nraSst muopr eIspnn ltvaiseenrsdst ors CoEmmmpSulCounuypiestpiteeolsismeCresormsmCuunsittoiemR gseo erv gseIunr l n avtemEosmr etsonp rt alssonydR ge o eev gse u r lEn atmm oCrpe sunlo st ayts noeSdmeu CseporpmsliemrInsuvneitsietoSsrusppliIenErvsmesptlooryR gseo eev gse u rCl n aot m omr e smnC t auus nnsditto iemsCeormsInmvuesntiotSireusspR gpo eliv geerusr lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays R g neo edev g Cse uor lmn at mmor eus n nt ais ntideS suppliIenrvsestoSruR gspo epv gle uier l n arst m or e s n t a s nd CommunitSieusppliers R go e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s nd Suppliers Banking by companies are considered throughout mandates between 2019 and 2021, will Our banking business is well positioned the investment decision-making process. continue to report against the 2030 targets, to support our customers managing their Investment teams through portfolio and aim to widen the coverage of its own climate risk through financing. For our management tools assess, examine and assessment and reporting over time.
wholesale customers, we use our transition determine the level of potential ESG risks that and physical risk questionnaire as part of our could impact the current and future value For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK) risk framework to understand their climate of issuers. Pension Scheme's annual TCFD statements and climate action plan, see strategies and risk. We have set out a suite of hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/information-centre/ policies to guide our management of climate One of our key approaches to manage climate other-information.
risk, including our recently updated energy risk is through engaging with the companies policy and thermal coal phase-out policy (see we invest in. Our HSBC Asset Management Insurance page 65). We continue to develop our climate Stewardship Plan outlines our approach to In 2022, our Insurance business, which has life risk appetite and utilise metrics to help engaging with issuers, including on the topic insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in eight manage climate exposures in our wholesale of climate change. markets and total assets under management and retail portfolios. Climate scenario analysis of approximately $126bn, updated its is used as a risk assessment tool to provide Employee pensions sustainability policy to align with the Group's insights on the long-term effects of transition The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension new thermal coal phase-out policy. An ESG and physical risks across our corporate and Scheme, our largest plan with $33bn assets policy on corporate underwriting was also retail banking portfolios, as well as our own under management, aims to achieve net zero introduced.
operations (for further details, see page 67). greenhouse gas emissions across its defined benefit and defined contribution assets by Risk appetite was reviewed relating to key ESG Asset management 2050. To help achieve this, it is targeting an aspects. ESG standards were embedded into HSBC Asset Management managed interim emissions reduction of 50% by 2030, insurance product development processes over $608bn assets at the end of 2022, from 2019 levels, for its equity and corporate and operational capabilities.
of which more than $55bn were held in bond mandates. This commitment was made sustainable investments. The majority of in the context of wider efforts to manage the In response to multiple and differing ESG the remaining assets were invested in impact of climate change on the Scheme's regulatory initiatives and developments, HSBC's ESG-integrated strategies. investments and the consequent impact on insurance entities in the EU have implemented the financial interests of members. key disclosure-related regulatory requirements.
When assessing the impact of climate-related These requirements mainly impact insurancerisk to our portfolios, we are increasingly During 2022, a framework was put in place to based investment products manufactured by considering both physical and transition risks. assess progress towards the 2030 targets. The HSBC entities in the EU. Related requirements As a result, we have integrated ESG and Scheme, which has reported emission for the UK and other jurisdictions are expected climate analysis to help ensure that risks faced reductions for the equity and corporate bond to be introduced in the near future.
64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Our approach to sustainability policies TCFD We recognise that businesses can have an Supporting the transition As part of our oversight of sustainability risk impact on the environment, individuals and Reinforcing our ambition to support our clients' policies, we operate an assurance framework communities around them. We continue to transition to lower carbon through transition that is designed to take a more holistic view of develop, implement and refine our approach financing, we updated our thermal coal risks, including by: to working with our business customers to phase-out policy, which we explain further understand and manage these issues. We on the following page, as well as our energy - ESG news screening, taking a risk-based have joined various partnerships to support policy, which we set out below. approach, across the sustainability risk our role in this, including the World Economic policies; Forum's Principles for Financing a Just and Governance and implementation - overseeing clients considered to be of Urgent Energy Transition. HSBC's relationship managers are the primary higher risk; point of contact for our customers and are
- reviewing client files across the Our policies responsible for checking whether our sustainability risk policies; and Our sustainability risk policies cover customers meet applicable policies. Within agricultural commodities, chemicals, energy, our Group Risk and Compliance function, - monitoring of the sustainability risk client forestry, mining and metals, thermal coal, we have reputational and sustainability risk portfolio against a defined set of key control UNESCO World Heritage Sites and Ramsar- specialists who are responsible for reviewing, indicators overseen by the Sustainability designated wetlands. We also apply the implementing and managing our sustainability Risk Oversight Forum.
Equator Principles when financing projects. risk policies as well as our application of the Equator Principles. Our global network of The framework is used to monitor the These policies define our appetite for business more than 75 sustainability risk managers is in-scope portfolio and keep track if there in these sectors and seek to encourage supported by regional reputational risk is a deterioration in the risk ratings. With customers to meet good international standards managers across the Group who have the respective risk rating assigned, our of practice. Where we identify activities that additional oversight responsibilities for sustainability risk specialists will agree could cause material negative impacts, we will sustainability risk. the necessary actions to help mitigate only provide finance if we can confirm clients unacceptable risks with the business.
are managing these risks responsibly. Such The Wholesale Reputational and Sustainability customers are subject to greater due diligence Risk team also became part of Risk Strategy, Where considered appropriate, a submission and generally require additional approval by with expanded Group-wide responsibilities, to can be made to the Reputational Risk and sustainability risk specialists. strengthen the governance and oversight of Client Selection Committee to agree an sustainability risk policies, and to reflect the appropriate course of action.
Our sustainability policies are aligned with evolution of the sustainability agenda.
our approach to climate risk, and our net zero ambition. The Sustainability Risk Oversight Forum, made up of senior members of the Group Risk and For further details on how we manage Compliance function and global businesses, sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, continued to oversee the development and see  of policies that seek to responsibility/sustainability-risk.
identify, manage and mitigate the Group's sustainability risk.
Our energy policy In December 2022, we published our the specific purpose of projects pertaining The IEA's 2021 Net Zero by 2050 report updated policy covering the broader energy to new oil and gas fields and related highlights that an orderly transition requires system, including upstream oil and gas, infrastructure whose primary use is in continued financing and investment in oil and gas power generation, hydrogen, conjunction with new fields. Engagement on existing oil and gas fields to maintain the renewables and hydropower, nuclear, transition plans is a key part of our approach. necessary output. We will therefore continue biomass and energy from waste. The We will continue to provide finance or to provide finance to maintain supplies of policy seeks to balance three related advisory services to energy sector clients at oil and gas in line with current and future objectives: supporting the reduction of the corporate level, where clients' transition declining global oil and gas demand, while global greenhouse gas emissions; enabling plans are consistent with our 2030 portfolio- accelerating our activities to support clean an orderly transition that builds resilience in level financed emissions targets and net zero energy deployment.
the longer term; and supporting a just and by 2050 commitment. If a client's transition affordable transition. Central to our approach plan is not produced, or if, after repeated As part of our previously announced ambition is our commitment to supporting clients who engagement, is not consistent with our to provide $750bn to $1tn in sustainable are taking an active role in the transition. targets and commitments, we will not finance and investment by 2030 to support provide new finance and may withdraw our customers in all sectors, we will support In line with the policy, we will no longer existing financing. critical areas such as renewable energy and provide new finance or advisory services for clean infrastructure.
ESG review | Environmental Our approach to sustainability policies continued Our thermal coal phase-out policy Biodiversity and natural capital-related in our baseline reporting as at 31 December In December 2021, we published a policy to policies 2020, we are making progress against phase out thermal coal financing in EU and Our sustainability risk policies restrict these targets.
OECD markets by 2030, and globally by 2040. financing activities that have material This incorporated project finance, direct negative impacts on nature. While a number Our 2020 baseline comprised thermal coal lending, and arranging or underwriting of of our sectoral policies have such restrictions, power generation and mining exposures capital markets transactions to in-scope our forestry and agricultural commodities within the power and utilities, and metals clients, as well as the refinancing of existing policies focus specifically on a key impact: and mining sectors, as defined in our TCFD finance facilities. deforestation. These policies require disclosures. We are in the process of expanding customers involved with major deforestation- the on-balance sheet exposures that are In line with our commitment to review our risk commodities to operate in accordance in-scope for our thermal coal policy to include policy and targets each year, taking into with sustainable business principles, as well those outside of these two TCFD sectors.
account evolving science and internationally as require palm oil customers to obtain recognised guidance, we expanded the policy certification and commit to 'No Deforestation, Our processes, systems, controls and in 2022. We committed to not provide new No Peat and No Exploitation' (see 'Our respect governance are not yet designed to fully finance or advisory services for the specific for human rights' on page 87). While we seek identify and disclose thermal coal exposures, purposes of the conversion of existing to work with our clients to help ensure their particularly for exposures within broader coal-to-gas-fired power plants, unless alignment with our policies, we have conglomerates. Until our systems, processes, the client demonstrates to us its intention withdrawn banking services to customers controls and governance are enhanced, to transition to abated power generation, who have not engaged, for example, in certain aspects of our reporting will rely on consistent with our targets and commitments; meeting our certification requirements. manual sourcing and categorisation of data.
and the plants do not operate in We are reassessing the reliability of our data environmentally or socially critical areas. We As part of our net zero commitment, we and reviewing our basis of preparation to help also committed to not provide new finance or are reviewing our current policy protections in ensure that we are reporting all relevant advisory services for new metallurgical coal this area, and aim to release a revised policy, thermal coal exposures aligned to our thermal mines. With the updated policy, we informed by scientific and international coal policy. As a result, we have not reported additionally committed to: guidance, in 2023. thermal coal exposures in this Annual Report and Accounts 2022. We expect that our
- reduce absolute on-balance sheet finance For further details of our approach to biodiversity updated thermal coal exposures dating back emissions by 70% in both the thermal coal and natural capital-related activities, see to 31 December 2020 will be made available 'Biodiversity and natural capital strategy' power and thermal coal mining sectors for reporting as soon as practicable in 2023, on page 61.
by 2030; although this is dependent on availability and
- apply an amended definition of thermal Exposure to thermal coal quality of data.
coal expansion as it pertains to mergers In our thermal coal policy published in and acquisitions activity; and December 2021, we disclosed our intention to Thermal coal financed emissions targets As mentioned earlier, our financed emissions
- decline new relationships with companies reduce thermal coal financing exposure by at target is a reduction of 70% in both the that operate thermal coal assets in least 25% by 2025, and by 50% by 2030, using thermal coal power and thermal coal mining environmentally and socially critical areas. our 2020 Task Force on Climate-related sectors by 2030, using a 2020 baseline. We Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') as our baseline.
now intend to publish our baseline financed Using the same methodology and data used emissions alongside our updated thermal coal exposures as mentioned above.
Asset management policy In September 2022, our asset management portfolios beyond 2030 for EU and OECD business, HSBC Asset Management, markets, and 2040 for all other markets.
published its own policy on how a phase-out The policy includes some restrictions on of thermal coal would impact on investments investment exposure to thermal coal ahead it makes on behalf of clients. of these deadlines, as well as commitments to undertake enhanced due diligence on the The policy aligns with the commitment made transition plans of investee companies with by HSBC Asset Management under the Net thermal coal exposure. Companies held in Zero Asset Managers initiative to support investment portfolios that do not develop investing aligned with net zero greenhouse credible plans to transition away from gas emissions by 2050, or sooner. thermal coal could face voting sanctions, and ultimately a divestment of holdings.
Under its policy, HSBC Asset Management will not hold listed securities of issuers with For further details of the policy, see www.
more than de minimis revenue exposure assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/ attachments/common/coal-policy-b2bto thermal coal in its actively managed en-09162022.pdf.
66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Insights from scenario analysis TCFD Scenario analysis supports our strategy by Analysing the outputs significant investments. This will have an assessing our position under a range of climate Climate scenario analysis allows us to model impact on profitability, leading to higher scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of how different potential climate pathways may credit risk in the transition period. A delayed climate change, plan for the future and meet affect our customers and portfolios, particularly transition will be even more disruptive due to our growing regulatory requirements. in respect of credit losses. As the chart below lower levels of innovation that limits the ability shows, losses are influenced by their exposure to decarbonise effectively, and rising carbon Having run our first Group-wide climate to a variety of climate risks under different prices that squeeze profit margins.
change scenario analysis exercise in 2021, we climate scenarios.
produced several climate stress tests for global Overall, our scenario analysis shows that the regulators in 2022, including the Monetary Under the Current Commitments scenario, we level of credit losses can be mitigated if we Authority of Singapore and the European expect moderate levels of losses relating to support our customers in enhancing their Central Bank. We also conducted our first transition risks. However, the rise in global climate transition plans.
internal climate scenario analysis.
warming will lead to increasing levels of physical risk losses in later years. A gradual For the full internal climate scenario analysis, We continue to develop how we produce transition towards net zero, as shown in the including our assessment of the impacts of climate our climate scenario analysis exercises so change on our corporate lending, retail mortgage Net Zero scenario, still requires fundamental that we can have a more comprehensive and commercial real estate portfolios, see Insights understanding of climate headwinds, risks shifts in our customers' business models, and from scenario analysis on page 226.
and opportunities that will support our strategic planning and actions. Modelled climate losses How credit losses from climate risks have been modelled under different scenarios.1 In climate scenario analysis, we consider, jointly: <1.5x
- t m ra o n v s in iti g o n to r i a s k n e a t r i z s e in ro g e fr c o o m n o th m e y p , i r n o c c l e u s d s in o g f ments ($bn) >1.5x changes in policy, technology, consumer mpair b co e u h l a d v e io a u c r h a i n m d p s a t c a t k e b h o o rr l o d w er e p rs e ' r c o e p p e t r i a o t n in , g w hich mulative i income, financing requirements and asset Cu values; and
- physical risk arising from the increased 2021 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 frequency and severity of weather events, Net Zero Downside Transition Risk Net Zero2 such as hurricanes and floods, or chronic Current Commitments Counterfactual1 Downside Transition Risk2 shifts in weather patterns, which could each 1 The counterfactual scenario is modelled on a scenario where there will be no losses due to climate change.
impact property values, repair costs and lead 2 The dotted lines in the chart show the impact of modelled expected credit losses following our strategic to business interruptions. responses to reduce the effect of climate risks under the Net Zero and Downside Transition Risk scenarios.
We also analyse how these climate risks impact how we manage other risks within our Use of climate scenario outputs Next steps organisation, including credit and market risks, We are starting to consider climate scenario We plan to continue to enhance our and on an exploratory basis, operational, analysis in core decision-making processes, capabilities for climate scenario analysis liquidity, insurance, and pension risks. including strategic and financial planning, risk and use the results for decision making, management, capital assessment, business particularly in respect of: Our climate scenarios decision making, client engagement, and In our 2022 internal climate scenario analysis Group reporting. It helps to inform our strategy - our risk appetite, by identifying businessexercise, we used four scenarios that were and supports how we capture opportunities critical metrics and using scenario analysis designed to articulate our view of the range of while minimising risks, and enabling HSBC to test, calibrate, and monitor against potential outcomes for global climate change. to navigate through the climate transition. thresholds;
- client engagement, by identifying the These scenarios, which reflect different levels We use the analysis to anticipate climate- climate opportunities - such as supporting of physical and transition risk and are varied related impacts for our customers by the growth of renewables, biomass, electric by severity and probability, were: the Net Zero identifying new opportunities where possible, vehicles - and vulnerabilities by engaging scenario, which aligns with our net zero strategy including targeted financing to support their with and supporting our customers; and and is consistent with the Paris Agreement; the transition journey. - strategy, by using the range of scenario Current Commitments scenario, which assumes analysis outcomes to shape our strategy that climate action is limited to the current We have considered climate risk in our annual across business and regions.
governmental commitments and pledges; the financial planning cycle. In order to do this, we Downside Transition Risk scenario, which reviewed the inclusion of ECL outcomes from assumes that climate action is delayed until our internal climate scenario analysis using the 2030; and the Downside Physical Risk scenario, Current Commitments scenario because we which assumes climate action is limited to deem it the most likely to transpire over the current governmental policies. planning horizon.
For further details of these scenarios, and how they were designed to identify, measure and assess our material climate vulnerabilities, see 'Insights from scenario analysis' in the 'Climate risk' section on page 226.
ESG review | Environmental Our approach to climate reporting TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and summarises where additional information can be found.
We have considered our 'comply or explain' obligation under the UK's Financial Conduct Authority's Listing Rules, and confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures, save for certain items, which we summarise below and in the additional information section on page 423.
Disclosure Recommendation Response location Governance a) Describe the Board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities Process, frequency and training - The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in Page 86 developing the approach, execution and associated reporting. It has enhanced its oversight of and 256 ESG matters, with a dedicated agenda item on this topic introduced for 2022. It considered ESG at seven meetings during the year.
- Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, Page 86 and seek out further opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area. and 252 Sub-committee accountability, processes - The Group Risk Committee ('GRC') maintains oversight of delivery plans to ensure that the Page 272 and frequency Group develops robust climate risk management capabilities. The GRC also has oversight over and 275 ESG-related initiatives and reviews these to assess the risk profile. It considered ESG risk at four meetings in 2022.
- The Group Audit Committee ('GAC') reviews and challenges ESG and climate-related reporting, Page 263 processes, systems and controls and considered these matters in detail at five meetings during and 268 the year. The GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG Committee and Group Disclosure and Controls Committee, provided close oversight of the disclosure risks in relation to ESG and climate reporting, amid rising stakeholder expectations.
Examples of the Board and relevant Board - The Board considered whether to establish a Board committee dedicated to ESG issues, but Page 255 committees taking climate into account instead decided that the best way to support the oversight and delivery of the Group's climate and 256 ambition and ESG strategy was to retain governance at Board level.
- In 2022, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and detailed updates including: reviews of net zero policies, financed emissions target setting and climate-aligned financing initiatives.
- The Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive met regularly with government officials globally to continue to foster strong international relations. In addition, certain Board members also continued to be actively involved in climate initiatives and attend global events such as the Group Chief Executive's attendance at the COP27 Summit in Egypt.
b) Describe management's role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities Who manages climate-related risks and - The Group Executive Committee enhanced its governance model of ESG matters with the Page 86 opportunities ESG Committee and supporting forums. These support senior management in the delivery and 255 of the Group's ESG strategy, key policies and material commitments by providing oversight over - and management and coordination of - ESG commitments and activities.
- The Group Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer, and Group Chief Sustainability Page 86 Officer hold joint responsibility for the ESG Committee. It oversees all areas of environmental, and 251 social and governance issues, with support from accountable senior management in relation to their particular areas of responsibilities. Key representatives from the functions and global businesses attend to provide insights on the implementation of the ESG strategy across the Group, allowing the ESG Committee to make recommendations to the Board in respect of ESG matters.
- The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the chief risk officers of our PRA-regulated Page 86 businesses are the senior managers responsible for climate financial risks under the UK Senior Managers Regime.
How management reports to the Board - The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy Page 248 to the Group Chief Executive. The Group Chief Executive is supported in his management of and 249 the Group by recommendations and advice from the Group Executive Committee ('GEC'), an executive forum comprising members of senior management that include chief executive officers of the global businesses, regional chief executive officers and functional heads.
- Key representatives from the functions and global businesses attend the ESG Committee Page 251 to provide insights on the implementation of the ESG strategy across the Group, allowing the ESG Committee to make recommendations to the Board in respect of ESG matters.
68 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location Processes used to inform management - The ESG Committee supports Group executives in the development and delivery of ESG strategy, Page 86 key policies and material commitments by providing oversight, coordination and management of and 251 ESG commitments and activities. We also recognise that we require enhanced capabilities and new sources of data.
- The Climate Risk Oversight Forum oversees all global risk activities relating to climate risk Page 222 management, including physical and transition risks. Equivalent forums have been established at regional level.
- The Sustainability Target Operating Model Steering Committee oversees the implementation Page 86 of the Group's organisational plan for the internal infrastructure, both within the Sustainability function and the wider Group, to help deliver our climate ambitions.
Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term Processes used to determine material risks - To support the requirements for assessing the impacts of climate change, we have developed a set of Page 38 and opportunities capabilities to execute climate stress testing and scenario analysis. These are used to improve our and 47 understanding of our risk exposures for risk management and business decision making. Given the challenges on data sourcing and processes, there has been an impact on certain climate disclosures.
- Climate scenario analysis was used as a risk assessment tool to provide insights on the long-term effects of transition and physical risks across our corporate and retail banking portfolios, as well as our own operations.
- Our sustainable finance ambition has enabled sustainable infrastructure and energy systems, promoted decarbonisation efforts across the real economy, and enhanced investor capital through sustainable investment.
Relevant short, medium, and long term - We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and in our own operations and Page 49 time horizons supply chain by 2030.
- We aim to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment for our customers in their transition to net zero and a sustainable future.
- We have taken these time horizons into our consideration. Our assessment of climate risks covers three distinct time periods: short term is up to 2025, medium term is 2026 to 2035; Page 139 and long term is 2036 to 2050.
Transition or physical climate-related issues - We enhanced our transition and physical risk questionnaire and scoring tool, which helps us to assess Page 222 identified and improve our understanding of the impact of transition and physical risk on our customers' business models, and used it for our corporate clients in high climate transition risk sectors.
- We are supporting our customers in their transition through our sustainable finance and investment ambition. Our sustainable finance data dictionary includes a detailed definition of contributing activities.
- In the UK, in line with our retail portfolio, the main perils that drive potential credit losses relate to coastal, river and surface water flooding, although the impacts from these perils are not expected Page 229 to cause significant damages. Around 20% of our financed properties are in London, and most are protected by the Thames Barrier.
Risks and opportunities by sector and/or - We identified six key sectors where our wholesale credit customers have the highest exposure Page 223 geography to climate transition risk, based on their carbon emissions. These are automotive, chemicals, construction and building materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities.
- We continued to improve our identification and assessment of climate risk within our retail mortgage portfolio, with increased investments in physical risk data and enhancements to our internal risk assessment capabilities and models. We completed detailed analysis for the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia, which together represent 73.8% of balances of the global mortgage portfolio.
- Opportunities include sustainable finance, sustainable investment and sustainable infrastructure. For Page 58 a detailed breakdown of our sustainable finance progress by geography, see the ESG Data Pack.
Concentrations of credit exposure to - We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the wholesale portfolio. For Page 223 carbon-related assets (supplemental details, see the ESG Data Pack.
guidance for banks) - Since 2020, we have rolled out the questionnaire so that it included our largest customers in the next highest climate transition risk sectors: agriculture, industrials, real estate, and transportation.
This was done across a larger geographical scope.
Climate-related risks (transition and - As a result of our climate scenario analysis, our largest and most impacted sectors - power and Page 227 physical) in lending and other financial utilities, construction and building materials, and chemicals - are subject to increased levels of intermediary business activities transition risks due to their ongoing exposure to higher carbon-emitting activities.
(supplemental guidance for banks) - HSBC Asset Management is increasingly considering both physical and transition risks. As a result, Page 64 it integrated ESG and climate analysis to help ensure that risks faced by companies are considered throughout the investment decision-making process.
ESG review | Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation's businesses, strategy and financial planning Impact on strategy, business, and financial - Transition to net zero represents one of our four strategic pillars. We aim to be net zero in our operations Page 49 planning and supply chain by 2030 and in our financed emissions by 2050.
- Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our position under a range of climate scenarios.
It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet our growing regulatory and 67 requirements. We acknowledge that our systems, processes, controls and governance are developing.
- We continue to develop how we produce our climate scenario analysis exercises so that we can have a more comprehensive understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities that will support our Page 67 strategic planning and actions.
- We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of climate-related issues on financial planning, and Page 423 particularly the impact of climate-related issues on our financial performance and financial position.
In addition, we have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy, and financial planning, but not specifically in relation to acquisitions/divestments. Due to transitional challenges such as process limitations, we do not disclose the climate-related impact in these areas.
We expect to further enhance our disclosure and processes in relation to acquisitions/divestments in the medium term.
- We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy, and financial Page 423 planning. Our access to capital may be impacted by reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we could face greenwashing risk resulting in significant reputational damage, impacting our revenue generating ability and potentially our access to capital.
Impact on products and services - We aim to help our customers' transition to net zero and a sustainable future through providing Page 58 and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
Impact on supply chain and/or value chain - We will continue to engage with our supply chain through CDP, and through direct discussions Page 62 with our suppliers on how they can further support our transition to net zero.
- We also have significant responsibilities in relation to asset ownership by our insurance business, employee pension plans and asset management business.
Impact on adaptation and mitigation - In October 2020, we announced our ambition to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by Page 62 activities 2030, against a 2019 baseline. As part of our ambition to achieve 100% renewable power across our operations by 2030, we continue to look for opportunities to procure green energy in each of our markets. A key challenge remains the limited opportunity to pursue power purchase agreements or green tariffs in key markets due to regulations.
Impact on operations - Climate change poses a physical risk to the buildings that we occupy as an organisation, Page 229 including our offices, retail branches and data centres.
- We use stress testing to evaluate the potential for impact to our owned or leased premises. Our scenario stress test, conducted in 2022, analysed how seven different climate change-related hazards - comprising coastal inundation, extreme heat, extreme winds, wildfires, riverine flooding, soil movement due to drought, and surface water flooding - could impact 500 of our critical and important buildings.
Impact on investment in research and - Our Climate Solutions Partnership is a five-year $100m philanthropic initiative that aims to Page 84 development identify and remove barriers to scale for climate change solutions. Working with the World Resources Institute, WWF and over 50 local partners, our support focuses on start-up companies developing carbon-cutting technologies, nature-based solutions, renewable energy initiatives in Asia and the WWF-led Asia Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme.
How we are striving to meet investor - During Board meetings, the Directors continued to balance discussions on the Group's Page 20 expectations performance, emerging risks and duties to shareholders, while remaining conscious of responsibilities to support communities and help customers.
- In 2022, the Board approved an update to the thermal coal phase-out policy. It also approved the Page 23 publication of an updated energy policy.
Transition plan to a low-carbon economy - We have committed to publish our own climate transition plan in 2023. This plan will outline, in Page 49 one place, not only our commitments, targets and approach to net zero across the sectors and markets we serve, but how we are transforming our organisation to embed net zero and finance the transition.
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation's strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario Embedding climate into scenario analysis - Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our position under a range of climate Page 67 scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet our and 226 growing regulatory requirements.
- In 2022, we delivered our first internal climate scenario analysis exercise where we used four scenarios that were designed to articulate our view of the range of potential outcomes for global climate change. The analysis considered the key regions in which we operate, and assessed the impact on our balance sheet between the 2022 and 2050 time period.
Key drivers of performance and how these - Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential climate pathways may Page 67 have been taken into account affect our customers and portfolios, particularly in respect of credit losses. Under the Current and 226 Commitments scenario, we expect moderate levels of losses relating to transition risks. However, the rise in global warming will lead to increasing levels of physical risk losses in later years.
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location Scenarios used and how they factored in - The scenario assumptions used for our climate stress testing exercise include varying levels of Page 226 government policies governmental climate policy changes, macroeconomic factors and technological developments.
However, these scenarios rely on the development of technologies that are still unproven, such as global hydrogen production to decarbonise aviation and shipping. For details of the assumptions, see the ESG Data Pack.
How our strategies may change and adapt - The nature of the scenarios, our developing capabilities, and limitations of the analysis lead Page 67 to outcomes that are indicative of climate change headwinds, although they are not a direct and 226 forecast.
- Developments in climate science, data, methodology, and scenario analysis techniques will help us shape our approach further. We therefore expect this view of risk to change over time.
- We plan to continue to enhance our capabilities for climate scenario analysis and use the results for decision making, particularly in respect of strategy, by using the range of scenario analysis Page 67 outcomes to shape our strategy across business and regions.
- We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due to transitional challenges including data limitations and evolving science and methodologies. Page 423 Risk management a) Describe the organisation's processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks Traditional banking risk types considered - Our initial approach to managing climate risk was focused on understanding physical and P age 221 transition impacts across five priority risk types: wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, reputational risk, resilience risk and regulatory compliance risk.
Process - We have integrated climate risk into our existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the Page 47 risk management framework through the policies and controls for the existing risks where and 221 appropriate. We also recognise that we require enhanced capabilities and new sources of data.
- We consider greenwashing to be an important emerging risk that is likely to increase over time, as we look to develop capabilities and products to achieve our net zero commitments, and work and 221 with our clients to help them transition to a low-carbon economy. We also recognise that green finance taxonomies are not consistent globally, and evolving taxonomies and practices could result in revisions in our sustainable finance reporting going forward.
- We also use stress testing and scenario analysis to assess how these climate risks will impact our Page 46 customers, business and infrastructure.
Integration into policies and procedures - In 2022, we incorporated climate considerations into our UK mortgage origination process for Page 223 our retail mortgage business and new money request process for our key wholesale businesses.
We also continued to enhance our climate risk scoring tool, which will enable us to assess our customers' exposures to climate risk. We also published our updated energy policy, covering the oil and gas, power and utilities, hydrogen, renewables, nuclear and biomass sectors, as well as updated our thermal coal phase-out policy after its initial publication in 2021.
- We are integrating climate risk into the policies, processes and controls across many areas of our organisation, and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over time.
Consider climate-related risks in traditional - In 2022, we expanded our scope to consider climate risk impacts on our other risk types P age 221 banking industry risk categories (including treasury risk and traded risk) in our risk taxonomy. and 226 (supplementary guidance for banks) - We also analysed in our internal scenario analysis exercise how climate risks impact how we manage other risks within our organisation, including credit risk, and on an exploratory basis: market, operational, liquidity, insurance, and pension risks.
b) Describe the organisation's processes for managing climate-related risks Process and how we make decisions - The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive regular updates on our Page 222 climate risk profile, top and emerging climate risks, and progress of our climate risk programme.
- Our climate risk appetite supports the oversight and management of the financial and non-financial risks from climate change, and supports the business to deliver our climate ambition in a safe and and 223 sustainable way. We recognise that we require enhanced systems, processes, controls, governance and new sources of data.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation's overall risk management framework How we have aligned and integrated our - Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three Page 221 approach lines of defence model, which sets out how we identify, assess, and manage our risks.
- In February 2022, we refreshed a high-level assessment of how climate risk may impact risk types within the HSBC taxonomy over a 12-month horizon, and how the level of risk may increase over longer time horizons.
- We developed our first internal climate scenario exercise, where we used four bespoke scenarios that were designed to articulate our view of the range of potential outcomes for global climate change.
How we take into account interconnections - Through our dedicated climate risk programme, we continued to embed climate considerations Page 135 between entities and functions throughout the organisation, including updating the scope of our programme to cover all risk types, expanding the scope of climate-related training, developing new climate risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and the development of our internal climate scenario exercise.
- We updated our climate risk management approach to cover all risk types in our risk taxonomy. Page 222
- We expanded the scope of climate-related training for employees to cover additional topics, such as greenwashing risk, and increased the availability of training to the broader workforce.
ESG review | Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location Metrics and targets a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process Metrics used to assess the impact of - We continue to disclose our wholesale loan exposure to the six high transition risk sectors, which Page 223 climate-related risks on our loan portfolio are automotive, chemicals, construction and building materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities. The wholesale loan exposure is used as a metric to assess impact of climate risk and help inform risk management, together with our transition risk questionnaire results.
- We continue to measure climate risk in our most material mortgage market, which is the UK, where the primary physical risk facing properties is flooding. We also continue to identify the current and potential EPC ratings for individual properties within the UK mortgage portfolio.
For further details, see our ESG Data Pack.
- Our climate risk management information dashboard includes metrics relating to our key climate risks, and is reported to the Global Climate Risk Oversight Forum. However, we do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business activities.
Metrics used to assess progress against - We continue to track our progress against our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of P age 18 opportunities sustainable finance and investment by 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary. The breakdown and 57 of our sustainable finance and investment progress is included in our ESG Data Pack.
- We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or other business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, including revenue and 423 from products and services designed for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our business or strategic planning time horizons. In addition, we do not currently disclose internal carbon prices due to transitional challenges such as data challenges. We recognise that we require enhanced systems, processes, controls, governance and new sources of data.
Board or senior management incentives - To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a number of measures are included in the annual incentive Page 16 and long-term incentive scorecards of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and 286 and Group Executives.
Metrics used to assess the impact of - As part of our internal climate scenario analysis, we carried out a detailed physical risk assessment of Page 224 climate risk on lending and financial four of our most material retail mortgage markets - the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia - intermediary business (supplemental which represent 73.8% of balances in our retail mortgage portfolio. In 2022, we disclose our loan guidance for banks) maturity within the UK mortgage portfolio.
- We do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related risks on retail lending, Page 423 parts of wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business activities (specifically credit exposure, equity and debt holdings, or trading positions, each broken down by industry, geography, credit quality, average tenor).
b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks Our own operations - We reported our scope 1, 2 and part of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the P age 18 energy used in our buildings and employees' business travel. In 2022, we started to disclose our and 63 scope 3 supply chain emissions.
Greenhouse gas emissions for lending and - We expanded our coverage of sectors for on-balance sheet financed emissions. We also set out P age 18 financial intermediary business the data and methodology limitations related to the calculation of scope 3 financed emissions. and 50 (supplemental guidance for banks) - In 2022, HSBC Asset Management started to measure scope 1 and 2 emissions of companies in its portfolio.
- Future disclosure on financed emissions, and related risks is reliant on our customers publicly disclosing their carbon emissions and related risks. We aim to disclose financed emissions for Page 423 additional sectors in our Annual Report and Accounts 2023 and related disclosures.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets Details of targets set and whether they are - One of our strategic pillars is to support the transition to a net zero global economy. To support Page 18 absolute or intensity based our ambition to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050 or sooner, we have set interim 2030 targets for on-balance sheet financed emissions for eight sectors.
- For financed emissions we do not plan to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line with the Net-Zero Page 423 Banking Alliance ('NZBA') guidelines by setting 2030 targets. In 2022, we disclose interim 2030 targets for on-balance sheet financed emissions for eight sectors.
- We do not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk, or internal carbon price targets. This is due to transitional challenges and data limitations. But we considered physical risk and carbon prices as an input in the climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available. In addition, we do not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In 2022, we are internally reviewing and enhancing the green bond framework, with further refinement to be undertaken in 2023. Our continued monitoring of evolving taxonomies and practices over time could result in revisions in our reporting going forward and lead to differences year-on-year as compared with prior years.
We do not consider water usage to be a material target for our business and therefore we have not included a target in this year's disclosure.
Other key performance indicators used - We also use other indicators to assess our progress including energy consumption and Page 62 percentage of renewable electricity sourced.
72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Social Social Building inclusion and resilience We aim to play an active role in opening up a world of opportunity for our customers, colleagues and communities as we bring the benefits of connectivity and global economy to more people around the world.
At a glance Our relationships We are equally committed to ensuring there Building inclusion and resilience can also Our purpose is opening up a world of are no unnecessary barriers to finance for our mean working to address gaps where we opportunity, and we aim to bring that customers. Customers should not find it more think we can make a difference. From working purpose to our customers, colleagues difficult to access finance because of their for fair pay and representation for our and the communities in which we operate. gender, their sexual orientation, their colleagues, to opening up access to finance neurodiversity or their disability. We have an to underserved customer groups, to ensuring Inclusion is key to opening up a world of ambition to create a welcoming, inclusive and HSBC branches and offices are safe spaces opportunity. It involves a commitment to accessible banking experience that opens up for everyone, we are committed to fairness remove unnecessary barriers to our people, a world of opportunity for our customers. and inclusivity.
our customers and our communities in realising their potential. Creating an inclusive Inclusion goes hand-in-hand with resilience. Finally, we aim to give back by engaging with environment for our colleagues enables them We build resilience for our colleagues by our communities through philanthropic giving, to flourish, and supports the strong and supporting their physical, mental and financial disaster relief and volunteering. We are purposeful delivery of our strategy. well-being, and by ensuring they are equipped focusing these efforts on our priorities: the just with the skills and knowledge to further their transition to net zero and building inclusion We are committed to ensuring our colleagues careers during a period of significant and resilience.
- and particularly our leadership - are economic transformation.
representative of the communities that we We believe building inclusion and resilience serve, and that we support their well-being For our customers, we build resilience through helps us to create long-term value and growth.
and development so they can learn and grow education: by helping them to understand their By removing unnecessary barriers and striving in their careers. We do this because we know finances and how to manage them effectively, to be a fair and equitable bank, we can attract that when we build an inclusive, healthy and and by creating propositions that simplify the and retain the best talent, support a wider stimulating workplace for our people, the banking experience while helping wealth customer base to achieve their goals over whole Group succeeds. to grow. We also build resilience through the long term, and stimulate growth in our products and services that protect what our communities. This is how we open up a customers value - their health, their families, world of opportunity for our colleagues, our their homes and their belongings. customers and our communities.
In this section Promoting diversity Our approach to diversity We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive Page 74 and fostering and inclusion environment that reflects our customers and communities.
inclusion Creating a diverse environment Fostering an inclusive culture Building a healthy Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group Page 77 workplace Executive Committee and the Board.
Being a great place to work As the Covid-19 pandemic tested our colleagues, we expect the Page 79 way we work to change as the workforce meets new demands.
Well-being Our global well-being programme is a key enabler of our people Page 80 strategy, especially as we move to a more hybrid way of working.
Developing skills, Learning and skills We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where colleagues can Page 81 careers and development develop skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential.
opportunities Energising our colleagues We are committed to offering colleagues the chance to develop Page 82 for growth their skills while building pipelines of talented colleagues to support the achievement of our strategic priorities.
Building customer Our approach to customer We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers Page 83 inclusion and inclusion and resilience people can face in accessing financial services.
resilience Engaging with our Building a more inclusive We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a Page 84 communities world difference to the community and support sustainable growth.
ESG review | Social Promoting diversity and fostering inclusion Our approach to diversity and inclusion Our purpose, 'Opening up a world of To achieve progress, we are focused on Our approach extends beyond our colleagues opportunity', explains why we exist as an specific Group-wide priorities for which we and opens up a world of opportunity to our organisation and is the foundation of our hold senior executives accountable. Alongside customers and the communities in which we diversity and inclusion strategy. Promoting Group targets, some executives have local operate. As we set out on the following pages, diversity and fostering inclusion contributes to priorities, such as combating social inequality we are pleased to report progress in 2022, our 'energise for growth' priority. By valuing in the UK, and the promotion of Hispanic although we acknowledge there is more work difference, we can make use of the unique representation in the US, to allow flexibility for to be done.
expertise, capabilities, breadth and a broader diversity and inclusion agenda that perspectives of our colleagues for the is contextually relevant.
benefit of our customers.
How we hold ourselves to account We set meaningful goals We report and track progress We benchmark our performance Our executive Directors and Group Data is critical and gives our Group Executive We use external disclosures and Executives have goals within their annual Committee regular progress checks against benchmarks to measure the progress performance scorecards that are tied to its goals. Our measures to track progress we are making, and to provide us with remuneration plans. In 2022, we continued consist of: insight into what actions to prioritise.
to make progress against our three goals to: In 2022, we achieved:
- a quarterly inclusion dashboard, which
- achieve a 35% representation of women tracks progress against goals with specific - the Parker Review target of having at in senior leadership roles by 2025; data on hiring, promotion and exit ratios; least one Director from a minority ethnic
- achieve a 3.4% representation of Black - a formal assessment of the Group Executive group on its Board, with three Board heritage colleagues in senior leadership Committee's performance against its three members; roles in the UK and US combined by goals, run by our executive compensation - Stonewall's Gold standard and rank as a 2025, aligned to our commitment to team, at the half-year, third quarter and the top global LGBTQ+ inclusion employer; double the number of Black colleagues end of the year, which is then reported to - a score of 87.2 in the Bloomberg in leadership positions globally; and the Group Remuneration Committee; and Gender Equality Index, which tracks
- achieve a satisfaction score of at least - semi-annual inclusion review meetings the performance of public companies 75% in our Inclusion index, which looks where our Head of Inclusion meets each committed to transparency in gender at the inclusivity of our culture by Group Executive to review data and their data reporting. This was 13.1 percentage measuring our colleagues' feelings of progress against their goals, and to discuss points above the financial sector average.
belonging, trust and psychological actions and provide recommendations to safety, as recorded within our employee support further progress.
Snapshot survey.
A data driven approach to inclusion Our approach to collecting ethnicity data through colleagues' self-identification underpins our ethnicity strategy to better reflect the communities we serve. Allowing colleagues to self-identify helps us to set market representation goals. We have enabled 91% of our workforce to be able to share their ethnic heritage with us. A total of 55% of our colleagues have now made disclosures on their ethnic background, where legally permissible.
Strong self-declaration rates in the UK and US have enabled us to develop our ethnicity strategy with market-specific Black heritage representation goals. We define Black heritage to include all colleagues in the UK who identify as Black or mixed race where one of the ethnicities is stated as Black, and in the US for all colleagues who identify as Black or African-American.
Employees can also share their disability, gender identity and sexual orientation data where legally and culturally acceptable to do so.
These self-identification options are enabled for 90%, 81% and 70% of our workforce, respectively.
Engaging with diversity at the Board level We have a designated non-executive Director In 2022, we continued our Bank Director responsible for workforce engagement, Programme that invites a diverse group of whose role is to bring the voice of the senior leaders from across the Group to gain employee into the boardroom. Our employee exposure to boards and develop board skills.
resource group leadership community is an This programme is building an internal pool important contributor and communicator of diverse talent that we will be able to assign related to workforce engagement. to roles with our subsidiary boards.
Additionally, non-executive Directors are aligned to each of our employee resource For further details of Board diversity, see our groups. Corporate governance report on page 247.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Social Creating a diverse environment Women in senior leadership Black colleagues in senior leadership G Ge e n n d d e e r r d d i i v v e e r r s s i i t t y y d s a ta ta ti stics After achieving our ambition of having 30% of We are on track to double the number of Black senior leadership positions held by women in colleagues in senior leadership roles globally Holdings 8 67% 2020, we set a new goal to reach 35% by 2025. by 2025, having increased the number of Board 4 33% We remain on track, with 33.3% of senior Black senior leaders by 37% since 2020.
leadership roles held by women at the end of Group 17 81% Executives 2022, an increase of 1.6 percentage points since During 2022 we set a new Group-wide 4 19%
2021. A total 35.7% of all external appointments ethnicity strategy with the principle of better into senior positions were female, down from reflecting the communities we serve. We test Combined 170 66% 37.8% in 2021, and 38.1% of all promotions into this principle by comparing our workforce Group Executives and 89 34% senior leadership roles were female. to national census data and setting goals to direct reports1 narrow material representation gaps over Talent programmes, including Accelerating time. Our analysis highlighted Black heritage Subsidiary 616 66% Female Leaders, helped increase the visibility, representation gaps in the UK and the US. We directors2 315 34% sponsorship and network of our high- therefore set a goal of having 3.4% of Black performing senior women. Since starting the heritage colleagues in senior leadership roles Senior 6,226 67% programme in 2017, 38% of participants have in the UK and US combined by 2025. While leadership3 3,103 33% either been promoted or taken a lateral move we are on track to meet this, with 2.5% of to develop their careers. We have also retained leadership roles held by Black heritage Middle 18,897 63% 87% of colleagues who have completed colleagues in 2022, we know there is more to management3 11,257 37% the programme. be done to be representative of the societies we serve. 53,363 51% Junior In our Accelerating into Leadership management3 51,541 49% programme, which prepares high potential, Our ethnicity strategy is overseen by a mid-level colleagues for future leadership roles, committee of senior leaders, led by our 107,863 48% 44% of participants in 2022 were women. Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. All employees 115,907 52% The committee provides strategic direction We also had more than 2,600 women to the Global Ethnicity Inclusion Programme.
Male Female participating in our Coaching Circles programme, which involves senior leaders In 2022, we continued to focus on inclusive 1 Combined Group Executives and direct reports advising and supporting colleagues to develop hiring, investing in talent and growing includes HSBC Group Executives and their their leadership skills and build their networks. leadership effectiveness. We have launched direct reports (excluding administrative staff) as at 31 December 2022.
programmes to provide sponsorship and Our succession planning for key leadership mentoring such as Solaris in the UK, which 2 Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies that are included in the Group's consolidated roles includes an assessment of the diversity supports talented Black female colleagues, and financial statements, excluding corporate of our succession plans. We are improving the a Black heritage programme in Global Banking directors.
gender diversity of those in roles deemed most and Markets, where 25% of participants at 3 In our leadership structure, we classify: senior critical to the organisation, and successors to Director level secured promotion within 12 leadership as those at career band 3 and above; those roles. In 2022, 36% of the succession months of commencing the programme. In middle management as those at global career pool for these roles were women. 2023, we will extend the programme to band 4; and junior management as those at global career bands 5 and 6.
Commercial Banking colleagues and to In our support of our people throughout the colleagues in the US, with an additional focus different stages of their lives and careers, and on Hispanic colleagues. To help us attract in our aim to enable equal participation at diverse talent, we partner with specialist work, we introduced gender neutral parental recruitment organisations that engage leave in the US and Australia, and improved ethnically diverse talent. We also introduced paid maternity and paternity leave in Mexico reverse mentoring, which pairs Group and Argentina. Executives with Black heritage colleagues.
Representation and pay gaps shape of our workforce. There are more men or ethnic heritage and have processes to We have reported gender representation and than women in senior, higher-paid roles and ensure that remuneration is free from bias.
pay gap data since 2017 for the UK, and more women than men in junior roles. Given We review our pay practices and undertake extended this to include gender data for the differences in variable pay levels across a pay equity review annually, including an UK, the US, mainland China, Hong Kong, these roles, the increase in the 2021 variable independent third-party review of equal pay India and Mexico, alongside ethnicity data for pay pool contributed to the slight widening in major markets. If pay differences are the UK and US. In 2022, we extended this to of our pay gap for 2022. identified that are not due to objective, include gender data for Singapore and the tangible reasons such as performance, skills UAE. This covers over 70% of our workforce. While we are confident in our approach or experience, we make adjustments.
to pay equity, until women and ethnically In 2022, our mean aggregate UK-wide diverse colleagues are proportionately For further details on our representation data, gender pay gap was 45.2%, compared with represented across all areas and levels of the pay gap data, and actions, see com/diversitycommitments and the ESG Data 44.9% in 2021, and the ethnicity pay gap organisation we will continue to see gaps in Pack at was 0.4%, compared with -0.8% in 2021. average pay. We are committed to paying Our UK gender pay gap is driven by the colleagues fairly regardless of their gender ESG review | Social Fostering an inclusive culture In our annual Snapshot survey's Inclusion Looking to the future on disability Empowering diverse customers index, which measures our colleagues' sense Our ambition is to become a leading disability Aligned to our purpose of opening up a of belonging, psychological safety, perception confident employer and a digitally accessible world of opportunity, we are committed of fairness and trust, we achieved a financial services provider. In 2022, we to identifying and removing the different favourability score of 76% in 2022, one point continued to focus on driving our digital barriers customers face in accessing financial higher than our goal, and four points above accessibility programme so that our products services. In 2022, we contributed to this the financial services industry benchmark. and service can be accessible for all. through several initiatives, including the launch of a $1bn lending fund to invest in There was a three-point increase in colleagues For our customers and colleagues, we female-owned businesses. We introduced feeling able to speak up without fear of improved the accessibility of our public new processes to support refugees fleeing negative consequences. This was a positive websites, mobile applications and internal the conflict in Ukraine so they can access the indicator of our strengthening culture of systems. AbilityNet, the digital accessibility financial services they need to set up a new inclusion, which is a critical component of charity, benchmarked HSBC as having the life in the UK. We also sponsor the Hong Kong our 'energise for growth' strategy. most accessible website compared with other Lutheran Social Service to develop the 'Health local competitor banks in 10 of 13 of our key dollar fun' app to boost digital literacy among To educate our leaders and colleagues on Wealth and Personal Banking markets. the elderly.
driving an inclusive culture, we provided a number of inclusive leadership training We are transforming our internal systems to For further details of how we are making programmes, and enhanced our 'Making be digitally accessible. In 2022, we engaged financial services more accessible and fair, see 'Our approach to customer inclusion and HSBC more inclusive' training. More than over 2,000 colleagues in digital accessibility resilience' on page 83.
10,500 colleagues also completed inclusive awareness and training, supported by the hiring training, which is aimed at enabling fair launch of a digital accessibility hub, which Creating more equal communities and inclusive hiring decisions that are in line provides training and knowledge resources.
We partner with external organisations to with our hiring principles. The hub achieved the best digital accessibility open up opportunities for those groups who award at the 2022 Digital Impact Awards.
have historically been disadvantaged. In 2022, Employee resource groups initiatives included: Our employee resource groups foster an We are looking to extend our UK workplace inclusive culture, and contribute significant adjustments process to other key markets,
- working with the Indian Academy for value to tens of thousands of colleagues, ensuring our colleagues have the right tools Self-Employed Women to provide business with networks focused on a range of issues, and technologies to perform their roles. The training and support to access digital including: age, disability, parents and careers, programme will help colleagues with a marketplaces; ethnicity, gender and LGBTQ+. physical or sensory disability, long-term mental health conditions or neurodiversity - partnering with Rural Education and Our employee resource groups celebrate key needs to get advice and request additional Development India to train 500 youths dates in the diversity calendar and hold events equipment or software to enable them to do from migrant and rural families to equip for colleagues to raise awareness, and build their work. them with skills for the healthcare and apparel sector; and empathy and allyship. These included Pride, our network for LGBTQ+ colleagues and allies, In 2022, HSBC UK was recognised as a Gold - supporting the National Council of holding a global '24 hours of Pride' campaign Standard employer, following an assessment Social Service in Singapore to support that engaged our workforce to collectively by the Business Disability Forum, with a score employability services for persons who celebrate our LGBTQ+ colleagues. Our of 95.8%, the highest score awarded. We have recovered from mental health issues.
Embrace network for ethnicity hosted its were praised on our commitment, drive and first global summit, attended by over 1,300 innovation with regards to disability inclusion.
colleagues, including senior leaders across In 2023, we will continue to progress the three regions. execution of our disability confidence strategy with a particular focus on improving the experiences of colleagues with a disability across the key stages of their career journeys.
Starting our journey on social mobility We believe in the principle that the We also joined ProgressTogether, a circumstances of someone's birth membership body of firms aimed at should not define their future. addressing career progression and retention for those identifying with a lower socioIn 2022, we began to collect the socio- economic background. We established our economic diversity data of our colleagues 'Strive' employee resource group, which will within the UK, with the aim to improve social support and advocate for colleagues from mobility. We will use this data to help us lower socio-economic backgrounds. We understand the representation and plan to expand Strive to other markets as progression of colleagues from lower our work matures.
socio-economic backgrounds.
76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Social Building a healthy workplace Listening to our colleagues We were founded on the strength of different In 2022, we also held a global 'employee jam', In 2022, 1,159 concerns were raised related experiences, attributes and voices. We believe where over 18,000 colleagues across 63 to bullying, harassment, discrimination and that seeking out and listening to the views of markets came together for a live online retaliation. Of the 811 cases where an our colleagues is a fundamental part of who conversation (see panel below). The Snapshot investigation has concluded, 47% were we are and how we work. This has been survey is also a key source of insight to inform substantiated. We take action where we see especially important in 2022, as we looked to our approaches to well-being. For further standards fall short of our expectation. In continue defining the future of work and details of our approach to well-being, see 2022, 591 colleagues were dismissed in driving change in how we work. page 80. relation to misconduct, including 27 as a result of bullying, harassment or discrimination. We Listening to colleague sentiment Employee conduct and harassment are not complacent and know that there is In 2022, we changed how we run our We expect our people to treat each other more we can do. Our refreshed values will all-employee Snapshot survey, reducing with dignity and respect, and do not tolerate guide and inform our plans to continue the frequency from once every six months bullying or harassment on any grounds. Over creating and promoting an inclusive working to once a year, with a focus on increasing the past few years, we have strengthened environment participation to enable more granular our approach to bullying and harassment, reporting throughout the organisation. We improving our collective understanding of, Employee engagement received a record 167,668 responses to the and response to, these issues. 73% survey in September, with 78% of employees participating, surpassing the previous year's Our global anti-bullying and harassment code record of 64%. helps us to maintain consistent high standards Employee engagement score of conduct across the Group, while (2021: 72%) This increase has enabled us to put more data accommodating local cultural requirements. In directly in the hands of our people managers 2022, we added further anti-bullying and 68% to understand how their teams feel about life harassment messages to our mandatory at HSBC, with 5,000 managers given access training for all our colleagues, and continued to results, discussion guides and learning our campaign to encourage colleagues to be Of colleagues feel able to achieve their career resources to help them engage with the 'active bystanders' and speak up when they objectives at this company feedback at a team level. We continue to see or experience poor behaviours or things (2021: 67%) report insights to our Group Executive that do not seem right.
Committee and the Board, and local results 77% are shared across the Group to provide senior We have mandatory local procedures for leaders across business areas with detailed handling employee concerns, including insight to help plan and make decisions. complaints of bullying and harassment. Where Of colleagues who feel confident about this investigations are required, we have a global company's future We complement this all-colleague survey with framework setting the standards for those (2021: 74%) targeted listening activities throughout the investigations, which we improved throughout year, with employee lifecycle surveys aimed 2022. We monitor bullying and harassment at new joiners, internal movers and voluntary cases to inform our response and the data is leavers. reported to management committees.
In May and June, we received more than 13,000 responses to our 'Future of work' survey, which explored how colleagues feel towards hybrid working. For further details of the findings and our approach to hybrid working, see 'Being a great place to work' on page 79.
Holding a live global online conversation In April, we held a global 'employee jam', impacts - both inside and outside HSBC - as where over 18,000 colleagues came well as their direct role in driving these.
together digitally for a live conversation around three key themes: embedding our Colleagues said that we have made progress purpose, values and strategy; enhancing the in areas such as diversity, future skills and colleague experience; and enhancing the trust, but that the focus should now be customer experience. placed on building a culture of inclusion and empowerment, and on a more Mirroring what we have heard in Snapshot consistent approach to well-being. They also surveys, colleagues told us that they believe in said the Group should focus on simplifying our purpose, strategy and values, but want to internal processes.
have a better understanding of their tangible ESG review | Social Listening to our colleagues continued Employee engagement We use eight Snapshot indices to measure key areas of focus and compare against peer institutions, including a new index focused on inclusion that we introduced in 2022. The table below sets out how we performed.
vs HSBC vs Index Score1 2021 benchmark2 Questions that make up the index Employee 73% +1 +3 I am proud to say I work for this company.
engagement I feel valued at this company.
I would recommend this company as a great place to work.
Employee 72% +1 +2 I generally look forward to going to work.
focus My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment.
My work is challenging and interesting.
Strategy 75% +3 +4 I have a clear understanding of this company's strategic objectives.
I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
I feel confident about this company's future.
Change 76% +2 +2 Leaders in my area set a positive example.
leadership My line manager does a good job of communicating reasons behind important changes that are made.
Senior leaders in my area communicate openly and honestly about changes to the business.
Speak-up 76% +1 +8 My company is genuine in its commitment to encourage colleagues to speak up.
I feel able to speak up when I see behaviour which I consider to be wrong.
Where I work, people can state their opinion without the fear of negative consequences.
Trust 77% +1 +3 I trust my direct manager.
I trust senior leadership in my area.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
Career 68% +1 +4 I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I believe that we have fair processes for moving/promoting people into new roles.
My line manager actively supports my career development.
Inclusion 76% +1 +4 I feel a genuine sense of belonging to my team.
(new)3 I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I feel able to be myself at work.
I trust my direct manager.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
Where I work, people can state their opinion without the fear of negative consequences.
1 Each index comprises constituent questions, with the average of these questions forming the index score.
2 W e benchmark Snapshot results against a peer group of global financial services institutions, provided by our research partner, Karian and Box. Scores for each question are calculated as the percentage of employees who agree to each statement. For further details on the constituent questions and past results, see the ESG Data Pack at 3 The Inclusion index was introduced in 2022. It comprises questions that were asked in earlier surveys, so we are able to report a comparison with 2021.
For further details of well-being, see page 80, and for further details of inclusion, see page 76.
What we learned One of the other top five factors identified to Our Snapshot survey showed 65% of All eight of our Snapshot indices improved influence the Employee engagement score is colleagues reported they intend to stay with slightly in 2022. Employee engagement, which colleagues' confidence in the company's HSBC for five or more years, a one-point is our headline measure, was three points future. Within the Strategy index, employees increase, while 19% said they intend to leave above benchmark and one point above 2021 recorded feeling increasingly confident about in the next two years, a two-point decrease.
levels, and exceeded our target to maintain the future of the company and understanding Despite this, involuntary turnover decreased engagement levels during the year. The of our strategic objectives. to 3.3% and voluntary turnover increased to Strategy index continued to improve in relation 14.1%, as labour markets picked up globally.
to the financial services' benchmark. With inflationary pressures and the rising cost Both our Snapshot and voluntary leaver of living around the world, pay and financial surveys tell us that career development Our colleagues continued to cite our well-being are growing concerns among and pay and benefits continue to be key approach to hybrid and flexible working as a colleagues. We saw an increase in comments influencing factors for voluntary attrition, reason to recommend HSBC, a theme that relating to pay in the Snapshot survey, and and they remain central to our people strategy.
has been consistent since 2020. A greater self-reported financial well-being declined by For further details of how we help our people proportion of colleagues also said they four points, despite a four-point increase in develop their careers, see 'Developing skills, experienced a positive environment employees reporting that they know how to careers and opportunities' on page 81.
and culture, as well as saw training and get support about their financial capability. For progression opportunities, helping to further details of our approach to financial drive our Employee engagement score. well-being, see page 80.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Social Being a great place to work We continued to support our colleagues Different markets are at different stages of Our approach to fair during the Covid-19 pandemic, and ensured embedding hybrid working, and in 2022 some their safe return to the office. In 2022, we continued to operate under Covid-19 conditions. pay and performance made it a priority to support even more colleagues to work flexibly, while ensuring we Getting the balance right As part of our approach to performance are there for our customers when and where While working at home eliminates management, we ask colleagues to they need us. commuting time and provides more set goals with the support of their line opportunities to balance work and life, managers, which are regularly reviewed.
Hybrid working is a key part of our flexible some benefits of being together in person We encourage people managers to hold working proposition and requires trust. We cannot be recreated remotely.
regular performance and development have empowered our people to find the right conversations, incorporating feedback, balance, guided by the three principles of: Overall, we have seen that colleagues and discussing well-being and progress.
in hybrid roles feel more productive and In the Snapshot survey, 76% of
- customer focus, by delivering excellent engaged than those who are unable to colleagues indicated they were happy outcomes for our customers; work remotely. However, nearly half of with the support their manager provided
- team commitment, by connecting with our colleagues told us that the networks for career development.
each other, building our community and of people they regularly interacted with collaborating; and decreased during the pandemic, and they While our overall Career index, which missed social connections.
- two-way flexibility, by providing more measures employee sentiment towards choice on how, when and where we work, career development, improved by As a result, we have equipped leaders to suitable for the roles we perform. one point, results from our employee achieve the right balance of remote and listening channels indicated that in-person working for their teams. Our people Our flexible working approach sentiment around pay and career managers have access to in-person and Colleagues consistently tell us that our opportunities were key factors in on-demand learning to develop the skills approach to flexible and hybrid working is colleagues' decisions to leave HSBC.
needed to lead hybrid teams effectively.
a key reason to recommend HSBC as an In 2023, we will review our approach to Nearly 8,000 hybrid working learning employer. In June 2022, our 'Future of work' pay and performance to ensure we are curriculums were completed by our people survey showed 81% of colleagues speak able to motivate colleagues in a way that leaders in 2022. In addition, we ran targeted positively about our approach to flexible and is authentic to our culture and values.
events to stimulate a successful return to the hybrid working, and 80% feel it improves their Our approach will help colleagues have office and create new hybrid working habits.
work-life balance. clarity on performance expectations, awareness of development With more colleagues adopting balanced hybrid In 2022, we refreshed our flexible working opportunities and access to resources.
working patterns, the Snapshot survey showed policies to provide more choice and make it 77% of colleagues said they have enough easier to request a flexible working As part of this programme, we are opportunities to connect and collaborate with arrangement. Choices include flexible and proposing to simplify assessments people outside their immediate teams.
staggered hours, job sharing, reduced hours of colleagues and shift the focus to and hybrid working. These new policies are conversations about performance and Our offices will continue to evolve to support available to more than 90% of colleagues, growth, while improving transparency increased collaboration. We are rolling out a including our branch network and non- and structure in our fixed and variable digital app in several locations that will offer permanent employees. We have encouraged pay design.
greater visibility of who is in the office to teams to have open conversations about support teams coming together.
flexible working opportunities. For further details of our approach to colleague remuneration see page 281, and 86% for details of our average standard entry More colleagues than ever are working in level wages compared with local minimum a hybrid way, where working time is split wage, see our ESG Data Pack at www.
between the office and home or another Of people managers are confident their hsbc.com/esg.
location. According to our Snapshot survey teams have the right balance of remote and in September, 59% of our colleagues work in-person working to meet customer and in a hybrid way, compared with 37% in 2021.
stakeholder needs.
Greater front-line flexibility with far reaching benefits Colleagues have embraced hybrid working across our eight global service centres that support our customer operations and services. Through a 'Hello hybrid' campaign, over 38,000 employees completed hybrid skills e-learning and nearly 850 colleagues took part in team dialogue sessions. The campaign helped our colleagues identify the best of remote and office working for their differing customer needs, cultures and regulatory requirements. As a result of the campaign, employee sentiment improved by 6% for the question 'I generally look forward to my work day.' In our main contact centres, colleagues now spend up to 67% of their working time on customer-facing activities.
ESG review | Social Well-being We want our colleagues to be at their best Physical well-being programmes on healthy financial habits at work, so we invest significantly in their The Snapshot survey revealed a decrease in and saving strategies. Since their launch, well-being and will continue to seek new physical well-being, with 71% of colleagues over 2,400 colleagues have used these ways to provide support. Guided by data rating their physical health as positive, programmes.
and colleague feedback, the pillars of our compared with 75% in 2021.
well-being programme are mental, physical, We review our approach to employee share financial and social well-being. In our In February, we ran a survey about our ownership plans in line with country demand, employee Snapshot survey carried out in employee benefits, which showed 37% of operational capacity and local legislation. In 2022, September, 70% of our colleagues said they colleagues wanted more support with physical we expanded our global share plan to colleagues believe HSBC cares about their well-being. activity and exercise. In response, we ran a in Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait, meaning that 90% five-month pilot with 2,000 colleagues to test of our people globally now have access to share Mental well-being mobile apps that incentivise physical activity. ownership plans. We continue to look to offer the Supporting our colleagues' mental health The pilot showed that the use of apps and plan in new locations.
remains a top priority, with the Covid-19 community challenges helped up to 70% of pandemic still presenting mental health users increase their physical activity, to In the UK, we introduced a green car scheme challenges in many countries. Our Snapshot varying degrees. As a result, we are looking to encourage colleagues to transition to survey revealed an increase in mental at expanding the initiative to more countries electric vehicles and benefit from reduced well-being, with 84% of colleagues rating in 2023. running costs and CO emissions.
their mental health as positive, compared with 82% in 2021. It also revealed that 73% of We have continued to provide access to Social well-being colleagues felt comfortable talking to their private medical insurance in the majority of We introduced social well-being as a new manager about their mental health, a slight our countries and territories, covering 98% of pillar of our programme in 2022, to focus on increase from 72% in 2021. permanent employees. In certain countries we social connections and work-life balance.
provide on-site medical centres that the We have continued to make telephone majority of colleagues can access. Snapshot surveys showed 75% of colleagues counselling services and Headspace, a say they can integrate their work and personal meditation app, available to all colleagues We have enhanced fertility, adoption, and life positively, a slight decrease compared with globally. Use of these services increased surrogacy benefits for our colleagues in the 76% in 2021. We will continue to facilitate this by 3% and 28% in 2022, respectively. US and Canada. We are also expanding our by enabling flexible working arrangements, gender dysphoria benefits for LGBTQ+ including hybrid working, in line with our More than 240,000 colleagues and contractors colleagues in the UK and Philippines future of work initiative (see page 76).
took part in mental health awareness training from 2023. Colleagues feel more confident talking to their as part of global mandatory training. Our manager about work-life balance, with 80% voluntary mental health e-learning has now Financial well-being saying they do, compared with 77% in 2021.
been completed by 30,000 employees, with Our Snapshot survey revealed a decrease in people managers making up 17% of the financial well-being, with 60% of colleagues In 2021, we upgraded our At Our Best completions. We also provide an in-depth reporting positively, compared with 64% in recognition online platform, which allows classroom course designed for line managers 2021. We believe this is an impact of rising for real-time recognition and appreciation and those wanting to be mental health inflation and cost of living in many countries. between colleagues. The upgrade enables champions, which has been completed by colleagues to record and send video messages 800 colleagues. However, colleagues felt more supported to to accompany recognitions. In 2022, there manage their financial well-being, at 62%, an were more than 1.2 million recognitions made, To celebrate World Mental Health Day, we ran increase of four points from 2021. The same an 11% increase on 2021. We also enabled a global awareness campaign on alleviating survey revealed that 81% of colleagues felt colleagues globally to donate their points stigma and encouraging colleagues to feel they had the right skills and knowledge to directly to humanitarian relief agencies able to speak up if they need help. Throughout manage their day-to-day finances, and 77% supporting those impacted by the war in October, we held over 100 virtual events, said they are well prepared to meet their Ukraine. To date more than 1,100 colleagues featuring internal and external experts financial goals. have made personal donations to this cause.
providing advice on mental health and well-being related topics. Our benefits survey showed that 31% of Awards colleagues want more support around CCLA Global 100 Mental Health financial education. In response, we have Benchmark continued to promote our financial education - Ranked #1 global employer Promoting a culture of well-being In July 2022, we became a founding member of the World Wellbeing Movement, a coalition of global leaders from business, civil society and academia. A key objective of the movement is to develop a simple and universally acceptable standard for measuring well-being that leads to meaningful action. We believe that having a standard ESG indicator on well-being will improve transparency and enable organisations to better target actions to create positive change.
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Social Developing skills, careers and opportunities Learning and skills development We aim to build a dynamic environment We use people analytics, strategic workforce Identifying and retaining where our colleagues can develop skills and planning, and learning needs analysis to identify undertake experiences that help them fulfil current and future skills demand, and to help future talent their potential. Our approach helps us to colleagues develop in new areas that match meet our strategic priorities and support their aspirations and support career growth.
The starting point to identifying talent is our colleagues' career goals.
having a fair and inclusive recruitment Throughout 2022 we continued to run process. To help managers hire in line Our resources skills campaigns to create the impetus for with our principles, we have launched The way we work and the way we learn has individual-led learning, and have used our compulsory inclusive hiring training. In changed, driven by the adoption of hybrid skills influencer network of more than 2022, over 5,000 managers received the working styles and digital capabilities. We use 1,800 colleagues to build engagement and certification, in addition to 13,500 in 2021.
a range of resources to help colleagues take enthusiasm around the Talent Marketplace, ownership of their development and career, and opportunities for development.
Our talent programmes have been including: designed to enable talented employees Evolving how we learn to make the successful transition into
- HSBC University, which is our home for During the Covid-19 pandemic, we more complex roles and to support learning and skills accessed online and strengthened our digital offering to enable participants in planning for a long-term through a network of training centres. colleagues to develop their skills in a hybrid career at HSBC. Our key programmes Learning is organised through technical environment. Our colleagues can access include: academies aligned to businesses and HSBC University online via our Degreed functions, complemented with enterprise- learning platform, using it to identify, assess
- Accelerating Female Leaders, which wide academies on topics of strategic and develop skills through internal and increases the visibility, sponsorship importance; external courses and resources in a way and network of female participants.
which suits them.
- My HSBC Career Portal, which offers career Colleagues are supported with development information and resources to development plans to help them Degreed materials range from short videos, help colleagues manage the various stages prepare for the next level of articles or podcasts to packaged programmes of their career, from joining through to leadership, and matched with or curated learning pathways that link content career progression; and sponsors from our senior leadership in a logical structure. By December, more than
- HSBC Talent Marketplace, which is our and external executive coaches; 187,000 colleagues were registered on the online platform that uses artificial platform. In 2022, overall training volumes - Accelerating into Leadership, which intelligence ('AI') to match colleagues were 28.8 hours per FTE, up from 26.7 hours prepares participants for leadership interested in developing specific skills with per FTE in 2021. roles through peer-based development opportunities that exist throughout our activities, senior sponsorship and global network.
However, we recognise that most executive coaches. Topics of focus development happens while our colleagues include network building, developing Learning foundations work, through regular coaching, feedback and resilience and navigating the We expect all colleagues, regardless of their performance management. To enable even organisation. We measure the contract type, to complete global mandatory more opportunities for colleagues to grow in retention of colleagues posttraining each year. This training plays a critical this way, our Talent Marketplace matches programme to assess the success; and role in shaping our culture, ensuring a focus on colleagues to projects and new experiences - 'UGrow', which is our programme the issues that are fundamental to our work based on their aspirations and career goals. that supports the retention and
- such as sustainability, financial crime risk, and In 2022, we rolled the platform out to an development of colleagues while our intolerance of bullying and harassment.
additional 83,000 colleagues across 18 strengthening our leadership pipeline.
New joiners attend our Global Discovery countries and territories. Over 150,000 The programme offers masterclasses programme, which is designed to build their colleagues now have access to the platform, focused on career planning, driving knowledge of the organisation and engage and to date over 3,000 projects and results and adaptability for aspiring them with our purpose, values and strategy.
networking requests have been facilitated, and colleagues.
over 70,000 hours of activity have taken place.
As the risks and opportunities our business Our global emerging talent programmes faces change, our technical academies adapt Training at HSBC welcomed over 800 graduates and 600 to offer general and targeted development.
6.3 million interns to the organisation in 2022. Our Our Risk Academy provides learning for programmes are a key enabler of our every employee in traditional areas of risk broader diversity goals (see page 74). In management such as financial crime risk, Training hours carried out by our 2022, our graduate intake was 48% but also offers more specific development colleagues in 2022. female, and comprised graduates from for those in high-risk roles and for emerging (2021: 5.9 million) 46 nationalities and over 30 ethnicities.
issues, such as climate risk, or the ethics and We welcomed our graduates with a conduct of AI and big data.
28.8 hours three-day induction programme, which introduced them to key topics such as Preparing for the future our purpose, values and strategy, as Our approach to learning is skills based.
Training hours carried out per FTE in 2022. well as our role in delivering a Our academy teams work with businesses and (2021: 26.7 hours) sustainable future.
functions to identify the key skills and capabilities they need now, and in the future.
ESG review | Social Energising our colleagues for growth We are committed to offering colleagues the Supporting our Asia wealth strategy Our Country Leadership Programme aims chance to develop their skills while building At the heart of our ambition to offer best-in to prepare and develop future country CEOs pipelines of talented colleagues to support class international wealth management and executives for highly complex roles.
the achievement of our strategic priorities. services to our customers is the accelerated The programme builds the confidence and expansion of our offering in Asia. To achieve competence of leaders across themes such It remains critical to our ability to energise this, we are providing opportunities for our as managing cyber risk, building regulatory for growth that we demonstrate the right colleagues to reskill and build career resilience relationships, representing HSBC's net zero leadership, and create the optimal conditions through our Accelerating Wealth Programme. ambitions and upholding customer-centricity.
for our people to perform. Our leadership and The programme offers a skills-based Participants learn through simulation exercises culture is guided by our purpose, values and development plan for colleagues who and coaching from seasoned executives, delivering our strategy. are looking to pursue a career in wealth subject matter experts and Board members.
management. Participants on the programme The Sustainability Academy are allocated 20% of their working week to Leadership development for our colleagues To support our ambitions to become net zero focus on learning and skills development. at managing director level includes new in our own operations by 2030, and to align They are then regularly assessed to ensure programmes that have been created in our financed emissions to the Paris Agreement they are making progress with developing partnership with business schools and goal of net zero by 2050, we launched the the right skills to meet our client needs. industry practitioners. Topics focus on a range Sustainability Academy in 2022. The academy of issues, including critical skills areas such as is available to all colleagues across the Group We recognise the role that diverse experiences influence, inclusion, and Agile methodologies.
and serves as a central point for colleagues to can bring to our customers, and have access learning plans and resources, and therefore ensured that the programme is open We recognise the importance of people develop practical skills. to colleagues from all global businesses and managers in shaping the experience of our functions based in Asia. colleagues. We have revised our training for The academy has resources to help all people managers to better support living our colleagues understand broad topics such Building leadership capabilities purpose, values and strategy, and to reflect as climate change or biodiversity, and is We have strengthened the training we give to the challenges of retaining talent. Our core supplemented with more advanced content leaders at all levels of the Group to ensure they leadership development programme is made for key groups of colleagues who are are equipped with the skills and knowledge up of four modules that are available in supporting customers through their transition. to energise and develop our colleagues. face-to-face and virtual formats. The We intend to align content to support business programme is focused on the role and outcomes by educating our colleagues on We have continued the executive leadership expectations of managers, how to design and topics such as energy efficiency, renewable programme for our most senior leaders, organise work, how to handle relationships energy, sustainability and ESG reporting. creating a programme of high-quality modules with employees and how to nurture a that draws on internal and external expertise. productive team environment.
As part of our strategy to align the provision The programme focuses on the shifting of finance to the Paris Agreement, the expectations of leaders, embedding the clarity Sustainability Academy is supporting our and alignment to achieve our goals and colleagues to build their knowledge and tackling strategic change. We complemented capability in the sectors in which we have this with educational resources focused on the begun to measure and set financed emissions opportunities presented by Cloud, artificial targets, including the oil and gas, and power intelligence, and blockchain technology.
and utilities sectors.
We will continue to update the academy with new research and content related to ESG issues, including those related to social and governance issues.
Supporting UK emerging talent In the UK, we have continued to broaden our emerging talent programmes beyond traditional graduate and internship schemes. Our programmes support those from nontraditional education backgrounds, and are supportive of our social mobility ambitions, outlined on page 75. In 2022, we provided over 180 apprenticeship opportunities for external and internal applicants. We have also provided over 600 structured work placements for secondary school students, and developed partnerships with Brampton Manor, Generating Genius and the #merky foundation to provide financial literacy support to over 6,400 14 to 16 year olds. We have recently launched a career accelerator programme, in partnership with Zero Gravity, which involves over 120 of our graduates providing career coaching and mentorship to university students. HSBC UK also uses its apprenticeship levy to support work opportunities at small and medium-sized business through a partnership with West Midlands Combined Authority.
82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Social Building customer inclusion and resilience Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience We believe that financial services, when Supporting financial knowledge To date, the podcast has been downloaded accessible and fair, can reduce inequality and and education more than 73,000 times.
help more people access opportunities. We We continue to invest in financial education aim to play an active role in opening up a content and features across different channels In collaboration with BBC Children in Need, world of opportunity for individuals by to help customers, colleagues and communities HSBC UK has worked with financial education supporting their financial well-being, and be confident users of financial services. charity Young Enterprise to adapt its awardremoving the different barriers that people winning Money Heroes programme for can face in accessing financial services. Between the beginning of 2020 and the end children and young people experiencing a of 2022, we received over 4 million unique range of issues and challenges in their lives.
Access to products and services visitors to our global digital financial education The education resources have been adapted We aim to provide innovative solutions content, achieving our 2019 goal. We will to ensure they are accessible, with books that address the barriers people can face in continue to engage customers with financial available in braille and large-print, as well accessing products and services. In 2022, we education content and build their financial as British Sign Language signed videos, introduced a new process to help refugees capabilities through the introduction of audiobooks and a new early-reader e-book.
fleeing the conflict in Ukraine to access the personal financial management tools. Since financial services they need to set up a new launching a financial fitness score in the UK, Creating an inclusive banking experience life in the UK. Over 9,000 Ukrainian refugees 74,325 customers have used the tool to We aim to ensure that our banking products have now opened a bank account with us. understand the healthiness of their finances and services are designed to be accessible for based on details about their spending, customers experiencing either temporary or As part of our efforts to help vulnerable borrowing and saving habits. permanent challenging circumstances, such customers access digital services, since 2021, as disability, impairment or a major life event.
HSBC UK has given over 1,500 vulnerable We support programmes that deliver financial customers a free tablet device. This allows education to our local communities. HSBC Life We are committed to becoming a digitally customers who previously had no way of is sponsoring the Hong Kong Lutheran Social accessible bank so that our digital channels accessing our online or mobile banking Service to develop the Health Dollar Fun App, are usable by everyone, regardless of ability.
services the ability to do so. to boost digital literacy among the elderly, We have been recognised by the charity enhance their physical well-being and AbilityNet as having the most accessible encourage social interaction. Throughout 2021 website compared with other local competitor Making banking accessible and 2022, we also partnered with Injaz banks in 10 out of 13 of our key Wealth and Number of no-cost accounts held for Al-Arab, member of JA Worldwide, to deliver Personal Banking markets.
customers who do not qualify for a standard our 'Saving for good' programme, which account or who might need additional support focuses on building the financial capability of Support for customers extends beyond our due to social or financial vulnerability.1 low-income workers in Bahrain, Egypt, Kuwait, digital channels. In recognition of the fact that 2022 716,957 Qatar and the UAE. We have now supported not all disabilities are visible or immediately over 1,700 individuals to grasp basic financial obvious to others, we have now joined the 2021 692,655 concepts such as budgeting, saving and Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard 2020 678,554 investing through a combination of Scheme in the UK and Hong Kong. The customised training courses and mentorship. lanyard indicates that an individual may need 1 The scope of this disclosure has expanded from 2021, where we only reported the number of accounts opened additional support, help or a little more time.
for homeless, refugees and survivors of human trafficking. We also understand the importance of We also launched 'quiet hours' across all of building financial capability in young people our UK branches and 'quiet corners' at to ensure future resilience. In Mexico, we designated branches in Hong Kong, to provide offer a podcast that covers a relevant a calmer and more inclusive environment.
financial educational theme in each episode.
Supporting women and minority-led businesses We aim to support our diverse customers women exclusive benefits across financial by opening up a world of opportunity for products and services, discounts on women and minorities. workshops and programmes taught by the University Anahuac Mexico.
In May 2022, we launched a Female Entrepreneur Fund that aims to provide $1bn We have also begun lending from the in lending to female-owned businesses. $100m that we allocated in 2021 for companies founded and led by women Other programmes include our Mujeres Al and minorities through HSBC Ventures.
Mundo (Women of the World) programme in Mexico, which supports the personal and professional development of women as customers. Mujeres Al Mundo offers ESG review | Social Engaging with our communities Building a more inclusive world We have a long-standing commitment to - In India, the Babuji Rural Enlightenment and Charitable giving in 2022 support the communities in which we operate. Development Society teaches rural farmers We aim to provide people with the skills and sustainable farming practices, including soil knowledge needed to thrive in the post- and water management, helping them to pandemic environment, and through the increase their income.
transition to a sustainable future.
We also work with our charity partners We are empowering our people and those around the world to promote employability in our communities to develop skills for the and financial capabilities in disadvantaged future. Through our charitable partnerships communities, and to respond to local needs: and volunteering opportunities, our people share their skills and create a positive impact - We support The Prince's Trust Group to Social, including Future Skills: 50% in society. help marginalised young people in Australia, Environment, including the Climate Canada, India, Malaysia, Malta and the Solutions Partnership: 20% Our global reach is our unique strength. UK to develop employable skills. Local priorities: 16% Bringing together diverse people, ideas and - Our award-winning partnership with the Disaster relief and other giving: 14% perspectives helps us open up opportunities Scouts has led to the creation of the first and build a more inclusive world. ever Money Skills Activity Badge for Beaver and Cub groups in the UK. Total cash giving towards charitable Building community and future skills programmes
- We support Feeding America to help users Our Future Skills strategy, launched in 2018, $116.8m of food banks in the US get on-site job skill has supported over 6.6 million people through training.
more than $197m in charitable donations.
Current projections from our charity partners - We work with the China Volunteer Service indicate our support during 2022 reached Foundation to improve the financial more than 1.45 million people through capability of elderly people in Beijing, Hours volunteered during work time donations of $41m. Shanghai, and Guangzhou. >67,000 In anticipation of global economies Our support for Covid-19 relief efforts also transitioning towards a low-carbon future, continued in 2022, with a door-to-door our colleagues and charity partners initiated vaccination programme in Hong Kong aiming People reached through our Future Skills programmes that help people and to help 10,000 elderly or people with programme communities respond to opportunities and disabilities. 1.45m challenges through building relevant skills: Community engagement and
- In the Middle East, we partner with the volunteering Posterity Institute and the Arab Youth We offer paid volunteering days, and Awards Council for Climate Change to develop encourage our people to give time, skills Investor and Financial Education an open-source curriculum for teaching and knowledge to causes within their Awards 2022 Hong Kong sustainability skills in higher education communities. In 2022, our colleagues gave - IFEA (Corporate) Gold Award institutions in the region. over 67,000 hours to community activities during work time.
- In Argentina, the Academia Solar programme aims to train students in Engagement with pressure groups design, installation and commissioning We aim to maintain a constructive of photovoltaic solar energy systems.
dialogue on important topics that are often raised by campaigning organisations and pressure groups.
Climate Solutions Partnership Our Climate Solutions Partnership is a five-year $100m philanthropic initiative that aims to identify and remove barriers to scale for climate change solutions. Working with the World Resources Institute, WWF and over 50 local partners, our support focuses on start-up companies developing carbon-cutting technologies, nature-based solutions, renewable energy initiatives in Asia and the WWF-led Asia Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme.
Since 2020, we have committed $95.8m of our $100m funding target to non-governmental organisation ('NGO') partners, supporting projects with the potential to make significant impacts in the mission to achieve a net zero, resilient and sustainable future.
84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Governance Governance Acting responsibly We remain committed to high standards of governance.
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance Our relationship lines, listen carefully to customer feedback so We strive to meet our responsibilities to We act on our responsibility to run our we know where we need to improve, and take society, including through being transparent in business in a way that upholds high standards steps to do this. our approach to paying taxes. We also seek to of corporate governance. ensure we respect global standards on human We are committed to working with our rights in our workplace and our supply chains, Customer experience is at the heart of how regulators to manage the safety of the and continually work to improve our we operate. It is imperative that we treat our financial system, adhering to the spirit and compliance management capabilities.
customers well, that we listen, and that we act the letter of the rules and regulations to resolve complaints quickly and fairly. We governing our industry. For further details of our corporate measure customer satisfaction through net governance, see our corporate governance report on page 239.
promoter scores across each of our business In this section Setting high How ESG is governed We expect that our ESG governance approach is likely to continue to Page 86 standards of develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and governance stakeholder expectations.
Human rights Our respect for human As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we strive for continual Page 87 rights improvement in our approach to human rights.
Customer Customer satisfaction While customer satisfaction improved during the year, we have work Page 89 experience to do to improve our rank position against competitors.
How we listen We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and Page 90 manage complaints.
Integrity, conduct Safeguarding the We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and P age 92 and fairness financial system reduce its impact on our organisation, customers and communities that we serve.
Whistleblowing Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our P age 92 colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
A responsible approach We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which Page 93 to tax we operate.
Acting with integrity We aim to act with courageous integrity and learn from past events Page 93 to prevent their recurrence.
Conduct: Our product Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on Page 94 responsibilities the impact we have on our customers and the geographies in which we operate.
Our approach with We require suppliers to meet our compliance and financial stability Page 94 our suppliers requirements, as well as to comply with our supplier code of conduct.
Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting and respecting the data we hold Page 95 and process, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the geographies in which we operate.
Cybersecurity We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, Page 96 detect and mitigate cyber threats.
ESG review | Governance Setting high standards of governance TCFD How ESG is governed The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management How HSBC's climate in developing the approach, execution and strategy is cascaded associated reporting. Progress against our ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board discussion Opportunities Risks and review of key topics such as updates on our climate ambition and transition, customer experience and employee sentiment. The Board Board level governance is regularly provided with specific updates on ESG matters, including the energy policy, human rights and employee well-being. Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their HSBC Holdings Board induction and ongoing development, and seek out further opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area. For further details of Group Executive Committee Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Board members' ESG skills and experience, see page 240. For further details of their induction and training in 2022, see page 252. Management level governance ESG Committee Group Risk Management Meeting Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG matters, the governance activities are managed through Supports the development and delivery Receives updates on climate risk, a combination of specialist governance of the Group's ESG strategy, key and reviews climate risk appetite infrastructure and regular meetings and policies and material commitments by and top and emerging climate risks.
providing oversight, coordination and committees, where appropriate. These include management of ESG commitments Chair: Group Chief Risk and the Group Disclosure and Controls Committee and initiatives. Compliance Officer and Group Audit Committee, which provide oversight for the scope and content of ESG Co-Chairs: Group Company Secretary disclosures, and the Group People Committee, and Chief Governance Officer, and which provides oversight support for the Group Chief Sustainability Officer Group's approach to performance management. For some areas, such as climate where our approach is more advanced, Supporting governance dedicated governance activities exist to support the wide range of activities, from sustainable finance solution development in the Sustainability Execution Climate Risk Oversight Forum Review Group Sustainability Execution Review Group to Oversees global risk activities relating climate risk management in the Climate Risk Oversees the delivery of our ambition to climate risk management, including Oversight Forum. to provide and facilitate $750bn to physical and transition risks. Equivalent $1tn of sustainable finance and forums have been established at investment, and realisation of regional level.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer commercial opportunities.
and the chief risk officers of our PRA-regulated Chair: Group Head of Risk Strategy businesses are the senior managers responsible Chair: Group Chief Executive and Macroeconomic Risk for climate financial risks under the UK Senior Managers Regime. Climate risks are considered in the Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, with scheduled Regional, global business and global functions updates provided, as well as detailed reviews of material matters, such as climate-related Examples of ESG-related management governance stress testing exercises. The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.
Digital Business Group Reputational Sustainability Human Rights The diagram on the right provides an illustration Services Executive Risk Committee Target Operating Steering of our ESG governance process, including how Committee Oversees global Model Steering Committee the Board's strategy on climate is cascaded and Oversees the global executive support Committee Oversees the implemented throughout the organisation. It delivery of ESG for identification, Oversees the Group's evolving identifies examples of forums that manage both activities within our management and implementation approach to human own operations, ongoing monitoring of the Group's rights and provides climate-related opportunities and risks, along services and of reputational risks. organisational plan enhanced with their responsibilities and the responsible technology for the internal governance.
chair. The structure of the process is similar for elements of our Chair: Group infrastructure, the escalation of problems, with issues either strategy. Chief Risk and both within the Chair: Group resolved in a given forum or raised to the Compliance Officer Sustainability Chief Risk and appropriate level of governance with appropriate Chair: Group Chief function and the Compliance Officer scope and authority. Operating Officer wider Group, to deliver our climate ambitions .
We expect that our ESG governance approach Chair: Group Chief is likely to continue to develop, in line with Sustainability our evolving approach to ESG matters Officer and stakeholder expectations.
86 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Governance Human rights Our respect for human rights As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we Our salient human rights issues recognise the role of business in respecting Illustration of HSBC Group's inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.
human rights. Our approach covers all aspects HSBC activities of internationally recognised human rights and is guided by the UN Guiding Principles on Provider of products and Business and Human Rights ('UNGPs') and the services OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
Personal Business Inherent human rights risks Employer Buyer customers customers Investor1 Refreshing our salient human rights issues In 2022, building on an earlier human rights Right to Freedom from forced ◆ ◆ ◆ decent labour review that had identified modern slavery and work discrimination as priority issues, we reviewed Just and favourable ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ our salient human rights issues following the conditions of work methodology set out in the UNGPs. These are Right to health and safety ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ the human rights at risk of the most severe at work potential negative impact through our business activities and relationships. It is important to Right to equality and freedom from ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ discrimination understand these as inherent risks, based on the nature of our business. Identifying and Right to privacy ◆ ◆ ◆ regularly reviewing these risks helps us to Cultural and land rights ◆ ◆ ◆ validate and evolve our overall approach to human rights. Right to dignity and justice ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ Through this review, we identified the following 1 Investor includes our activities in HSBC Asset Management.
five human rights risks (salient human rights issues) inherent to HSBC's business globally: self-determination and the enjoyment of additional analysis allows us to focus our culture, religion and language, and the rights efforts as we review the range of measures
- Right to decent work: This covers freedom of indigenous people. already in place to manage risks, and consider from forced labour including freedom from - Right to dignity and justice: This includes enhancements.
slavery and child labour and protection from freedom of opinion and expression and inhumane, harsh or degrading treatment or freedom from arbitrary arrest, detention Managing risks to human rights punishment. It also includes the right to just or exile. In 2022, we began the process of adapting our and favourable conditions of work including risk management procedures to reflect what the right to reasonable working hours, fair The assessment also considered our business we learned from the work on salient human working conditions and pay. It also covers the activities and relationships in the context of rights issues described above. This included right to health and safety at work, including our roles: as an employer; as a buyer of goods the development of Group guidance on human appropriate living conditions for workers as and services; as a provider of financial rights, which incorporates the salient human well as protection of their mental and products and services to personal customers rights issues assessment and provides physical health and safety while at work. and, separately, to business customers; and as colleagues with practical advice, including
- Right to equality and freedom from an investor, including all investment activities. case studies, on how to identify, prevent, discrimination: This covers the right to equal mitigate and account for how we address our opportunity and freedom from discrimination We assessed how each of these five roles impacts on human rights.
on the basis of protected characteristics. might intersect with our five salient human
- Right to privacy: This includes the right to rights issues. The table above shows the areas We incorporated additional human rights protection against interference with privacy. where we assessed severe negative impacts elements into our existing procurement on human rights would be most likely to arise, processes and supplier code of conduct,
- Cultural and land rights: This includes in the absence of action to mitigate them. This and we extended existing human rights due Stakeholder engagement As part of the process of validating our - interviewing of our largest investors to hear These stakeholder engagements and input assessment of our salient human rights their assessments of the potential human from external human rights experts led us to issues, we engaged with a range of internal rights impacts associated with the financial alter or extend our initial assessments in and external stakeholders. These included: services industry, and we listened to their several ways. For example, our discussions expectations of us in responding to the with civil society groups helped us
- drawing on the experience of our risks; and understand the potential impact of our employee groups, which gave us valuable - discussing our salient human rights issues investments on all five of our salient human feedback on human rights challenges in with some of our key suppliers, our large rights issues. Engagement with investors in the workplace; business customers and the companies in HSBC informed our assessment of the way
- working with civil society groups with which we invest, to understand their views in which our salient human rights issues expertise in one or more of our salient of human rights impacts in different parts of overlap with our approach to climate change human rights issues, who could represent the world and to develop collaborative and our commitment to a just transition (see the views of potentially impacted people; approaches to addressing those impacts. next page).
ESG review | Governance Our respect for human rights continued diligence processes for suppliers and business Financial crime controls We built on this experience in developing customers. We continued to develop our The risk of us causing, contributing or being access to banking services for customers in-house capability on human rights, including linked to adverse human rights impacts is in the UK and in Hong Kong with no fixed by launching online resources for all staff and also mitigated by our financial crime risk abode, providing over 4,000 accounts under delivering bespoke human rights training for management framework, which includes our these programmes.
520 employees across our network. global policies and associated controls.
We also responded to the devastating effects The actions we are taking to address these For further details of how we fight financial crime, of the conflict in Ukraine by introducing a salient human rights issues are consistent see  new process to help refugees to access the responsible-business/fighting-financial-crime.
with our values, and will help us to meet our financial services they need to set up a new commitments on diversity and inclusion, and life in the UK. Over 9,000 people fleeing the Other policies those we have made under the UN Global conflict have opened a bank account with us.
HSBC's Principles for the Ethical Use of Data Compact and the World Economic Forum and Artificial Intelligence describe how we metrics on risk for incidents of child, forced For further details of our work to support or compulsory labour. seek to respect rights to privacy while making vulnerable communities, see page 83.
use of these technologies.
For further details of the actions we have taken to Effectiveness respect the right to decent work, see our Annual Driving change The table below includes indicative metrics we Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at We continued to be active participants in use to measure year-on-year continual industry forums, including the Thun Group of improvement to our human rights processes.
For further details of the actions taken to Banks, which is an informal group that seeks to respect the right to equality and freedom from promote understanding of the UNGPs within discrimination, see 'Our approach to diversity the sector. Contracted suppliers who had and inclusion' on page 74.
either confirmed adherence to the HSBC has been an active member of the code of conduct or provided their Sector policies 93% Mekong Club since 2016. We are a regular own alternative that was accepted Some of our business customers operate in participant in its monthly financial services by our Global Procurement sectors in which the risk of adverse human working group and use its informative function (%) rights impact is greater. Our sector policies for typological toolkits, infographics, and other agricultural commodities, energy, forestry, No-cost accounts held for multimedia resources covering current and mining and metals cover human rights issues customers who do not qualify for such as forced labour, harmful or exploitative emerging human trafficking and modern a standard account or who might 716,957 child labour, land rights, the rights of slavery issues. Our Compliance teams need additional support due to indigenous peoples, including 'free prior and regularly collaborate and engage with the social or financial vulnerability Mekong Club in designing bank-wide informed consent', workers' rights, and the Employees who have received health and safety of communities. knowledge sharing and training sessions. bespoke training on human rights 520 Through our membership of international Supporting those impacted and those Votes against management for 87 potentially at risk reasons including human rights1 certification schemes such as the Forestry We continued to expand our Survivor Bank Stewardship Council, the Roundtable on Concerns raised related to programme, which has now benefited over Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator Principles, bullying, harassment, 1,159 2,000 survivors of modern slavery and human we actively support the continual improvement discrimination and retaliation trafficking in the UK, and is a model for of standards aimed at respecting human rights.
making financial services more accessible to vulnerable communities worldwide.
Our sector policies are reviewed periodically to 1 T he figure represents the number of resolutions at ensure they reflect our priorities. investee company shareholder meetings (including AGMs) where votes were cast against management For further details of our policy prohibitions and for reasons related to human rights.
other financing restrictions, see our sectorspecific sustainability risk policies at com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/ managing-risk/sustainability-risk.
Working for a just transition We aim to play a leading role in mobilising the transition to a global net zero economy, not just by financing it, but by helping to shape and influence the global policy agenda. When designing and implementing low-carbon pathways it is important to consider the communities and areas of the economy that will be facing the greatest challenges. This aligns closely with our commitments on human rights more broadly. This was demonstrated in June 2022 when HSBC and US fashion group PVH Corp. announced the first sustainable supply chain finance programme that includes human rights performance standards.
For further details on this programme, see page 58. See also our paper on Just and Inclusive Climate Transition for investors at news-and-articles/articles/campaign-2022-11-02-hsbc-responsible-investment-insights-q4-2022.pdf.
88 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Governance Customer experience We remain committed to improving our customers, and helps ensure we use Singapore and Mexico either improved customers' experiences. In 2022, we gathered customer feedback in all aspects of how we compared with 2021, or were in the top three feedback from over one million customers run our business. against competitors. However, our rank in across our three global businesses to help us India declined to third place. This was driven understand our strengths and the areas of How we fared by a decline in NPS among our Business focus. Our recommendation scores improved In WPB, our NPS increased in four of our six Banking customers. In the UK, our overall rank in more than 66% of our markets, although key markets, which were the UK, Hong Kong, remained unchanged. We were ranked in the we still have work to do to improve our rank mainland China and Singapore. Our NPS in top three among our large corporate and position against competitors. Mexico remained unchanged, while our NPS mid-market enterprise customers in the UK, in India saw a small decline. In Hong Kong, and we saw a small decline in NPS among Customer satisfaction we were ranked in first place, with improved our Business Banking customers. We continue scores in wealth advisory, life insurance and to see some challenges in service delivery, investment products. Our PayMe payments particularly for our Business Banking customers.
Listening to drive continual improvement app was also ranked in second place for Among other initiatives, we have been working In 2022, we continued to embed our feedback digital wallets. hard to resolve telephony resourcing, which has system so we can better listen, learn and act impacted our responsiveness.
on our customers' feedback. We use the net Our ranks in mainland China and India promoter score ('NPS') to provide a consistent remained in the top three, while our rank in In GBM, our global NPS improved from 13 to measure of our performance. NPS is India declined to third place. Our NPS in India 17 points. Our global rank position remained in measured by subtracting the percentage declined across the mobile app, branch and fifth place. We continued to be ranked in the of 'Detractors' from the percentage of call centre channels. Our overall rank in top three against competitors in MENA, while 'Promoters'. 'Detractors' are customers who Singapore improved, and we remained in the our US rank improved. Our digital satisfaction provide a score of 0 to 6, and 'promoters' are top three among our mass affluent and high score fell marginally by one point. We customers who provide a score of 9 to 10 to net worth customers. Our rank in the UK remained ranked first for the quality of our the question: 'On a scale on 0 to 10, how likely remained unchanged, with improvements in digital trade finance platforms.
is it that you would recommend HSBC to a our loan products and wealth advisory scores.
friend or colleague'. However, customers told us we needed to focus more on making digital platforms more Number of markets in top three We run studies that allow us to benchmark accessible; making payments easier; or improving rank1 ourselves against other banks. In 2022, we improving our account opening experience; expanded our surveys to 14 markets to cover and helping customers better monitor their 2022 India, France and Germany. We try to make it spending. We have made a commitment to WPB 4 out of 6 as easy as possible for customers to give us invest in making improvements in these areas.
feedback, accelerating our use of digital CMB 5 out of 6 real-time surveys to capture insight. By sharing In our private bank, our global NPS decreased this and other feedback with our front-line to 25, compared with 31 in 2021. This was teams, and allowing them to respond directly largely due to a decrease in our scores in Hong 1 In 2022, we updated the markets we measure to customers, we are improving how we Kong, the US and Luxembourg, with mainland our rank positions for both our WPB and CMB address issues and realising opportunities. China and Taiwan now included in the businesses to align with executive incentive overall score. scorecards. They comprise: the UK, Hong Kong, Our WPB 'Customer in the room' programme Mexico, mainland China, India and Singapore.
launched in 2022 to bring our senior In CMB, our NPS increased in four of our R th a r n o k u g p h o s th it i i r o d n - s p a a r r t e y p r r e o s v e i a d r e c d h u a s g in e g n c d ie a s ta gathered leadership closer to customers by providing six key markets, which were Hong Kong, them with direct access to customer mainland China, Singapore and Mexico. Our feedback. The programme helps to NPS declined in the UK and India. Our rank demonstrate the impact of our decisions on positions in Hong Kong, India, mainland China, Acting on feedback We continued to focus on improving our In CMB, we deployed digital onboarding In response to client feedback, we made a products and services to enable better solutions to 12 markets in 2022, using number of changes to our client coverage customer experiences. external data sourcing to streamline client model in GBM during 2022. We reshaped and colleague journeys. These deliveries our Institutional Client Group, particularly our Across WPB, we launched our Global increased our digital penetration by 14% approach to financial sponsors, sovereign Money proposition, initially in the UK, which from 2021, extending our digital products wealth funds and global investors. We allows customers to open a multi-currency and services to more customers globally. enhanced our corporate multinational model account and be able to use it within Through using technology to digitise our to focus on our largest relationships through minutes. We also introduced a new mobile operations, there was close to a 6% increase regional account managers. We also account opening journey in Singapore in in 2022 in trade transactions initiated digitally launched a series of transaction banking response to preferences for mobile-first by our customers, and nearly a 62% increase solutions to improve the experience for experiences. in payments completed using the HSBCnet our clients, and created a new digital mobile app. collaboration layer to drive clearer accountability and coordination of global teams when delivering these solutions.
ESG review | Governance How we listen To improve how we serve our customers, we How we handle complaints must be open to feedback and acknowledge when things go wrong. We have adapted Our principles Our actions quickly to support our customers facing Making it easy for Customers can complain via the channel that best suits them. We new challenges and new ways of working, customers to provide a point of contact along with clear information on next especially as a result of Covid-19-related complain steps and timescales.
lockdown restrictions.
All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise Acknowledging We aim to be open and consistent in how empathy to acknowledge our customers' issues. Complaints are complaints we track, record and manage complaints, escalated if they cannot be resolved at first point of contact.
although as we serve a wide range of Keeping the customers - from personal banking and We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout customer up to wealth customers to large corporates, the complaint resolution process via their preferred channel.
date institutions and governments - we tailor our approach in each of our global businesses. As Ensuring fair We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and the table on the right demonstrates, we have a resolution ensure the right outcome for our customers.
consistent set of principles that enable us to We provide customers with information on their rights and the remain customer-focused throughout the Providing available appeal process if they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaints process. rights complaint.
For further details on complaints volumes by Undertaking root Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and geography, see our ESG Data Pack at www. cause analysis address any systemic issues and to inform process improvements.
hsbc.com/esg.
Wealth and Personal Banking ('WPB') In 2022, we received approximately 1.2 million accessing and using our digital platforms. We complaints from customers. The ratio of are addressing these by seeking to improve our WPB complaint volumes1 complaints per 1,000 customers per month digital capabilities, timely staff reinforcement, (per 1,000 customers per month) in our large markets decreased slightly from enhanced guidance of how to use our digital 2022 2021 2.4 to 2.3. platforms and improved customer journeys.
Total2 2.3 2.4 In the UK, complaints fell 8% partly due to a The decrease in complaints in Mexico was decline in transaction disputes, which had driven by improvements in fraud detection, UK3 1.4 1.4 risen during the Covid-19 pandemic. The as our fraud teams took actions to protect reduction in these complaint volumes can also customers, including carrying out an upgrade Hong Kong3 1.0 0.7 be attributed to journey improvements we to a monitoring tool for credit and debit cards made to deal with these disputes more quickly. and making adjustments to fraud rules.
Mexico3 5.1 5.5 We continue to be focused on improving the customer experience to reduce complaint In our private bank in 2022, we received 331 volumes further during 2023. complaints, a 23% decrease on 2021, largely 1 A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction due to the reduction in administration and about WPB's activities, products or services The increase in complaints in Hong Kong was service issues. Within this category a high where a response or resolution is explicitly or mainly related to reduced operations in our proportion were attributable to processing or implicitly expected.
branches during Covid-19-related restrictions, client reporting delays/errors. In 2022, the 2 Markets included: Hong Kong, mainland China, France, the UK, UAE, Mexico, Canada and the US.
an increase in fraudulent activities, and the private bank resolved 344 complaints.
3 The UK, Mexico and Hong Kong make up 86% of migration by customers towards new ways of total complaints.
Acting on feedback In 2022, we launched a Group-wide plan to standardise our customer-focused approach This allows us to have a structured approach deliver an improved experience for our in our processes. to manage feedback.
customers around the world. The plan will strengthen our capabilities to hear, understand For our colleagues focused on improving our In Hong Kong, we analyse customer feedback and act on what our customers are telling customers' experiences, we enhanced and and detect their pain points at an early stage us on a regular basis. Across markets we launched regular forums in 15 of our key through a feedback mechanism. Our enhanced our measurement and tracking markets to ensure systematic reviews are colleagues are now able to reach out to capabilities, and developed the skills and tools carried out to prioritise feedback and our customers with unhappy experiences our colleagues need to improve their customer implement improvements quickly regarding proactively to resolve their outstanding issues.
experience each day. We also sought to our customers' online and offline experiences.
90 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Governance How we listen continued Commercial Banking ('CMB') In 2022, we received 62,995 customer In Hong Kong, volumes were higher in the first complaints, a decrease of 23.4% from 2021. half of the year due to the consequences of CMB complaint volumes1 Of the overall volumes, 78.1% came from the Covid-19-related restrictions that placed stress (000s) UK and 12.9% from Hong Kong. The most on servicing centre capacity. Additional 2022 2021 common complaint related to operations, recruiting of servicing staff, improvements namely payment processing errors and delays. in the customer due diligence policy and the Total 63.0 82.2 payment investigations process helped to The reduced volume of received complaints in reduce complaints volumes in the second half UK 49.2 67.1 the UK was largely as a result of a reduction in of the year, resulting in annual volumes that Covid-19-related complaints. This was mainly were in line with 2021.
due to the fact we received fewer complaints Hong Kong 8.1 8.2 related to the Bounce Back Loan scheme, and We resolved 65,018 complaints globally we also resolved the under-resourcing in UK in 2022. The average resolution time for servicing centres, which had led to delays in complaints reduced by 23% to an average customer support in 2021 and into the first of 5.7 days, which is within our global target half of 2022. of 20 days.
Acting on feedback In 2022, we continued to invest in our client In late 2022, we also introduced new We seek to ensure that we treat customers feedback tool, moving our products and local reporting functionality for complaints logged fairly when managing complaints, especially operations onto the platform. The Global on the tool, which will update complaints those who may be considered vulnerable or Payments Solutions business adopted the on a daily basis, and enable colleagues who have enhanced care needs. In 2022, we tool during the year, and CMB staff in Hong responsible for managing complaints within reported 865 complaints associated with such Kong and India are due to begin logging and markets and product teams to more closely customers and have managed these closely to managing complaints in early 2023. manage volumes and operations. ensure fair outcomes for the customer.
Global Banking and Markets ('GBM') In 2022, we received 2,127 customer In the Markets and Securities Services complaints in Global Banking, a decrease business, complaint volumes decreased by GBM complaint volumes1 of 8% from 2021. 6% from 2021. Of the overall Markets and 2022 2021 Securities Services complaint volumes, 48% Of the overall Global Banking complaints were in Asia and 43% in Europe. Our Markets Total 2,419 2,619 volumes, 45.6% were from complaints in and Securities Services business remains Europe and 28.0% came from the MENA focused on providing a high standard of client Global Banking2 2,127 2,310 region. With regard to the types of complaint, service and commitment to resolving issues in 82% for Global Banking related to servicing a timely manner, with 93% closed within our Global Markets and and payment processing, which is in line with service standards. 292 309 Securities Services previous years.
Acting on feedback We have continued to invest in our client quarter, we launched a new reporting additional information will enable feedback tool to create a consistent and module driven from our client feedback tool, management to respond to complaints streamlined experience for front-line staff in which will provide real-time complaints volumes.
Global Banking and Markets and the volumes, complaint details and operational wholesale businesses globally. In the fourth metrics for our complaints users. This 1 Globally, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, relating to the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific product or service or service activity. Within the UK, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction - whether justified or not - about our products, services or activities which suggests we have caused (or might cause) financial loss, or material distress or material inconvenience.
2 Global Banking also includes Global Payments Solutions (previously known as Global Liquidity and Cash Management) and complaints relating to payment operations, which is part of Digital Business Services.
ESG review | Governance Integrity, conduct and fairness Safeguarding the financial system We have continued our efforts to combat controls, and the application of machine financial crime and reduce its impact on our learning to improve the accuracy and organisation, customers and the communities timeliness of our detection capabilities. These that we serve. Financial crime includes fraud, new technologies should enhance our ability bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions to respond effectively to unusual activity and and export control violations, money be more granular in our risk assessments.
laundering, terrorist financing and This helps us to protect our customers, the proliferation financing. organisation and the integrity of the global financial system against financial crime.
We are committed to acting with integrity, and have a financial crime risk management Our anti-bribery and corruption policy framework that is applicable across all global Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy businesses and functions, and all countries requires that all activity must be: conducted The scale of our work and territories in which we operate. The without intent to bribe or corrupt; reasonable financial crime risk framework, which is and transparent; considered to not be lavish overseen by the Board, is supported by our nor disproportionate to the professional Each month, on average, we monitor financial crime policies that are designed to relationship; appropriately documented over 1.2 billion transactions for signs of enable adherence to applicable laws and with business rationale; and authorised at financial crime. During 2022, we filed regulations globally. Annual mandatory an appropriate level of seniority. Our global over 73,000 suspicious activity reports training is provided to all colleagues, with anti-bribery and corruption policy requires to law enforcement and regulatory additional targeted training tailored to certain that we identify and mitigate the risk of our authorities where we identified potential individuals. We carry out regular risk customers and third parties committing financial crime. In addition, we screen assessments, identifying where we need to bribery or corruption. Among other controls, approximately 117 million customer respond to evolving financial crime threats, as we use customer due diligence and records monthly for sanctions exposure.
well as monitoring and testing our financial transaction monitoring to identify and help crime risk management programme. mitigate the risk that our customers are involved in bribery or corruption. We perform We continue to invest in new technology, anti-bribery and corruption risk assessments 99% including through the deployment of a on third parties that expose us to this risk.
capability to monitor correspondent banking activity, the enhancements to our fraud monitoring capability and our trade screening Total percentage of employees who have received financial crime training, including on anti-bribery and corruption.
Whistleblowing We want colleagues and stakeholders to have action, dismissal, and adjustments to variable Compliance sets the whistleblowing policy confidence in speaking up when they observe pay and performance ratings. and procedures, and provides the Group unlawful or unethical behaviour. We offer a Audit Committee with periodic updates on range of speak-up channels to listen to the We promote our full range of speak-up their effectiveness. Specialist Compliance concerns of individuals and have a zero channels to colleagues to help ensure their teams and investigation functions own tolerance for acts of retaliation. concerns are handled through the most whistleblowing controls, with monitoring in effective route. In 2022, 18% fewer concerns place to determine control effectiveness.
Listening through whistleblowing were raised through HSBC Confidential channels compared with 2021. Of the concerns For further details of the role of the Group Audit Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC investigated through the HSBC Confidential Committee in relation to whistleblowing, see page 266.
Confidential, is one of our speak-up channels, channel in 2022, 83% related to behaviour which allows our colleagues and other and conduct, 11% to security and fraud risks, HSBC Confidential concerns raised stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially 6% to compliance risks and less than 1% to in 2022: and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to other categories.
1,817 local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC Confidential concerns are raised through an The Group Audit Committee has overall independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines oversight of the Group's whistleblowing (2021: 2,224) and a web portal in multiple languages. We arrangements, and the chair of the also provide and monitor an external email Group Audit Committee acts as HSBC's Substantiation rate of concerns address for concerns about accounting, whistleblowers' champion with responsibility investigated through HSBC Confidential internal financial controls or auditing matters for ensuring and overseeing the integrity, in 2022: (accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). Concerns independence and effectiveness of the 41% are investigated proportionately and organisation's policies and procedures.
independently, with action taken where appropriate. This can include disciplinary (2021: 42%) 92 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Governance A responsible approach to tax We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all a number of areas of differing interpretation Tax Compliance Act, the OECD Standard for jurisdictions in which we operate and to minimise or disputes with tax authorities exist at Automatic Exchange of Financial Account the likelihood of customers using our products any point in time. We cooperate with the Information ('Common Reporting Standard'), and services to evade or inappropriately avoid relevant local tax authorities to mutually and the UK legislation on the corporate tax. We also abide by international protocols that agree and resolve these in a timely manner. criminal offence of failing to prevent the affect our organisation. Our approach to tax and - We have applied the OECD/G20 Inclusive facilitation of tax evasion.
governance processes is designed to achieve Framework Pillar 2 guidance to identify those - We implement processes that aim to ensure these goals. jurisdictions in which we operate that have nil that inappropriately tax-motivated products and or low tax rates (15% or below). We have services are not provided to our customers.
Through adoption of the Group's risk identified seven such jurisdictions in which management framework, we seek to ensure we operated during 2022 that may be Our tax contributions that we do not adopt inappropriately tax- impacted by adjustments required under the The effective tax rate for the year of 4.9% motivated transactions or products, and that Pillar 2 Framework. We continually monitor was reduced by 14.3% by the recognition of tax planning is scrutinised and supported by the number of active subsidiaries within each previously unrecognised deferred tax assets in genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no jurisdiction as part of our ongoing entity the UK and France in light of improvements in appetite for using aggressive tax structures. rationalisation programme. We seek to forecast profits in these jurisdictions. Further ensure that our entities active in nil or low tax details are provided on page 357. The UK bank With respect to our own taxes, we are guided jurisdictions have clear business rationale for levy charge for 2022 of $13m is lower than the by the following principles: why they are based in these locations and charge of $116m for 2021 as it includes appropriate transparency over their activities. adjustments made to prior period UK bank
- We are committed to applying both the levy charges recognised in the current year.
letter and spirit of the law. This includes With respect to our customers' taxes, we are adherence to a variety of measures arising guided by the following principles: As highlighted below, in addition to paying from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit $5.5bn of our own tax liabilities during 2022, Shifting initiative. - We have made considerable investments to we collected taxes of $10.2bn on behalf of
- We seek to have open and transparent support external tax transparency initiatives governments around the world. A more relationships with all tax authorities. Given and reduce the risk of banking services being detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes the size and complexity of our organisation, used to facilitate customer tax evasion. paid in 2022 is provided in the ESG Data Pack.
which operates across over 60 jurisdictions, Initiatives include the US Foreign Account Taxes paid - by type of tax Taxes paid - by region Taxes collected - by region Tax on profits $2,429m (2021: $2,711m) Europe $2,745m (2021: $3,170m) Europe $4,197m (2021: $3,177m) Withholding taxes $361m (2021: $366m) Asia-Pacific $1,894m (2021: $2,077m) Asia-Pacific $3,274m (2021: $3,584m) Employer taxes $1,041m (2021: $1,125m) Middle East and North Africa $259m Middle East and North Africa $67m Bank levy $314m (2021: $479m) (2021: $236m) (2021: $78m) Irrecoverable VAT $1,152m (2021: $1,315m) North America $207m (2021: $469m) North America $1,129m (2021: $1,081m) Other duties and levies1 $232m (2021: $278m) Latin America $424m (2021: $322m) Latin America $1,493m (2021: $1,343m) 1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $94m (2021: $126m).
Acting with integrity We aim to act with courageous integrity and customers and to society at large, but to our Further information regarding the measures learn from past events to prevent their colleagues to ensure they can be rightly proud that we have taken to prevent the recurrence recurrence. We recognise that restoration of of the organisation where they work. We aim to of past mistakes can be found at trust in our industry remains a significant make decisions based on doing the right thing com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsiblechallenge, but it is a challenge we must for our customers and never compromising our business/esg-reporting-and-policies.
continue to pursue. We owe this not just to our ethical standards or integrity.
ESG review | Governance Conduct: Our product responsibilities Our conduct approach guides us to do the Our approach includes: Financial promotion right thing and to focus on the impact we have Our policies help to ensure that in the sale of for our customers and the financial markets in - designing products to meet identified products and services, we use marketing and which we operate. It is embedded into the way customer needs; product materials that support customer we design, approve, market and manage - managing products through governance understanding and fair customer outcomes.
products and services, with a focus on five processes, helping to ensure they meet This includes providing information on clear outcomes: customers' needs and deliver a fair products and services that is clear, fair and not exchange of value; misleading. We also have controls in place to
- We understand our customers' needs. ensure our cross-border marketing complies
- periodically reviewing products to help with relevant regulatory requirements.
- We provide products and services that ensure they remain relevant and perform offer a fair exchange of value. in line with expectations we have set; and
- We service customers' ongoing needs, - improving, or withdrawing from sale, Product governance and put it right if we make a mistake. products which do not meet our customers' Our product governance arrangements
- We act with integrity in the financial markets needs or no longer meet our high standards. cover the entire lifecycle of the product.
we operate in. This helps ensure that our products meet
- We operate resiliently and securely to avoid Meeting our customers' needs our policy requirements before we sell harm to customers and markets. Our policies and procedures set standards to them. It also allows continued risk-based ensure that we consider and meet customer oversight of product performance against We train all our staff on our approach to needs. These include: the intended customer outcomes.
conduct, helping to ensure our conduct outcomes are part of everything we do. - enabling customers to understand the key When we decide to withdraw a product features of products and services; from sale, we aim to consider the implications for our existing customers, Designing products and services - enabling customers to make informed and agree actions to help them achieve a Our approach to product development is set decisions before purchasing a product or fair outcome where appropriate.
out in our policies, and provides a clear basis service; and on which informed decisions can be made. - ensuring processes are in place for the Our policies require that products must be provision of advice to customers.
fit-for-purpose throughout their existence, meeting regulatory requirements and They help us provide the right outcomes for associated conduct outcomes. customers, including those with enhanced care needs. This helps us to support customers who are more vulnerable to external impacts, including the current cost of living crisis (see 'Supporting our customers facing a rising cost of living' on page 15).
Our approach with our suppliers We maintain global standards and procedures Supplier code of conduct Managing environmental and social risk for the onboarding and use of third-party We have a supplier code of conduct, revised in In 2022, we updated our ESG reputational risk suppliers. We require suppliers to meet 2022, which sets out our commitments to the assessment tool to identify the environmental our compliance and financial stability environment, diversity and human rights, and and social risks for suppliers that are requirements, and to comply with our which outlines the minimum commitments considered to be in sectors with high ESG risk.
supplier code of conduct. we expect of our suppliers on these issues. Previously, the assessment was applied to suppliers with higher value contracts only. The Sustainable procurement We formalise commitment to the code with tool provides an ESG reputational risk score for In October 2022, we introduced an internal clauses in our supplier contracts, which the supplier. A high-risk score results in a sustainable procurement procedure to set out support the right to audit and act if a breach further review to establish whether we are the minimum sustainability requirements for is discovered. able to mitigate the risk and onboard procurement activity. This helps us to manage the supplier.
the risks related to sustainability in our supply At the end of 2022, 93% of approximately chain, and balance the social, environmental 9,600 contracted suppliers had either For further details of the number of suppliers by and economic considerations in procurement confirmed adherence to the supplier code of geographical region, see the ESG Data Pack at

decisions. conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our Global Procurement function.
94 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022 ESG review Governance Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting and As part of our three lines of defence model, respecting the data we hold and process, our Global Internal Audit function provides in accordance with the laws and regulations independent assurance as to whether our of the markets in which we operate. data privacy risk management approaches and processes are designed and operating Our approach rests on having the right effectively. In addition, we have established talent, technology, systems, controls, policies data privacy governance structures, and and processes to help ensure appropriate continue to embed accountability across management of privacy risk. Our Group-wide all businesses and functions.
privacy policy and principles aim to provide a consistent global approach to managing data We continue to implement industry practices privacy risk, and must be applied by all of our for data privacy and security. Our privacy global businesses and global functions. Our teams work closely with our data protection Data Privacy Day privacy principles are available at  officers, industry bodies and research com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible- institutions to drive the design, implementation business/managing-risk/operational-risk. and monitoring of privacy solutions. We In January 2022, we hosted an internal conduct regular reviews and privacy risk global data privacy event for our We conduct regular employee training and assessments, and continue to develop solutions colleagues to mark International Data awareness sessions on data privacy and to strengthen our data privacy controls. Privacy Day. The event, which was security issues throughout the year. This broadcast online, was hosted by our includes global mandatory training for all our We continue to enhance our internal data Global Head of Data Privacy Legal and colleagues, with additional training sessions, privacy tools to improve accountability for the Global Data Risk Steward. The where needed, to keep up to date with new data privacy. We have procedures to articulate President and CEO of the International developments in this space. the actions needed to deal with data privacy Association of Privacy Professionals considerations. These include notifying was a guest speaker at the event.
We provide transparency to our customers regulators, customers or other data subjects, and stakeholders on how we collect, use as required under applicable privacy laws and Key themes included an exploration of and manage their personal data, and their regulations, in the event of a reportable developments in US state and federal associated rights. Where relevant, we work incident occurring. data privacy legislation and regulations, with third parties to help ensure adequate developments in the implementation and protections are provided, in line with our data Intellectual property rights practices embedding of existing data privacy laws, privacy policy and as required under data We have policies, controls and guidance key challenges to organisations such as privacy law. We offer a broad range of to manage risk relating to intellectual cross-border data transfers and data channels in the markets where we operate, property. This is to help ensure that localisation requirements, and the through which customers and stakeholders intellectual property is identified, maintained evolving enforcement environment can raise concerns on the privacy of their data. and protected appropriately, and to help within which we operate.
ensure we do not infringe third-party Our dedicated privacy teams report to the intellectual property rights during the course highest level of management on data privacy of business and/or operation.
risks and issues, and oversee our global data privacy programmes. We review data privacy These policies and controls support our regularly at multiple governance forums, management of intellectual property risk, including at Board level, to help ensure and operate to help ensure that intellectual appropriate challenge and visibility for senior property risk is controlled consistently and executives. Data privacy laws and regulations effectively in line with our risk appetite.
continue to evolve globally. We continually monitor the regulatory environment to ensure we respond appropriately to any changes.
The ethical use of data and AI Artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies give us the ability to process and analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies offer significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for the financial services industry and society as a whole. We have developed a set of principles to help us consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC's Principles for the Ethical Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at esg-and-responsible-business/our-conduct.
ESG review | Governance Cybersecurity The threat of cyber-attacks remains a concern Policy and governance Over 92% of our IT developers hold at least one for our organisation, as it does across the We have a comprehensive range of of our enhanced security certifications to help financial sector. As cyber-attacks continue cybersecurity policies and systems designed ensure we build secure systems and products.
to evolve, failure to protect our operations to help ensure that the organisation is well may result in disruption for customers, managed, with oversight and control. We host an annual cyber awareness month manipulation of data or financial loss. for all colleagues, covering topics such as This could have a negative impact on We operate a three lines of defence model, online safety at home, social media safety, our customers and our reputation. aligned to the operational risk management safe hybrid working and cyber incidents framework, to help ensure oversight and and response. Our dedicated cybersecurity We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities training and awareness team provides regular events and changes to the cyber threat and priorities. In the first line of defence, programmes to our colleagues and customers.
landscape, and take necessary proactive we have risk owners within global businesses We provide a wide range of education measures with the aim to reduce any impact and functions who are accountable for and guidance to both customers and our to our customers. identifying and managing the cyber risk. colleagues about how to spot and prevent They work with control owners to apply the online fraud.
Prevent, detect and mitigate appropriate risk treatment in line with our risk We invest in business and technical controls appetite. Our controls are executed in line with to help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber policies produced by our Resilience Risk threats. We apply a 'defence in depth' teams, and are reviewed and challenged by Over 97% approach to cyber controls, recognising the the second line of defence. They are overseen complexity of our environment. Our ability by the Global Internal Audit function, the third to detect and respond to attacks through line of defence. Employees completed mandatory round-the-clock security operations centre cybersecurity training on time.
capabilities helps to reduce the impact We regularly report and review cyber risk and of attacks. control effectiveness at relevant governance Over 92% forums, including to the Board and across We continually evaluate threat levels for the global businesses, functions and regions.
most prevalent attack types and their potential In addition, we work with our third parties IT developers who hold at least one of our outcomes. We have a cyber intelligence and to help reduce the threat of cyber-attacks internal secure developer certifications.
threat analysis capability, which proactively impacting our business processes. We have collects and analyses external cyber an assessment capability to review third Over 140 information. We input into the broader cyber parties' compliance with our information intelligence community through technical security policies and standards.
expertise in investigations and contributions Cybersecurity education events held globally.
to the cyber-sharing ecosystem in the financial Cyber training and awareness services industry, alongside government We understand the important role our people Over 97% agencies around the world. play in protecting against cybersecurity threats.
Our mission is to equip every colleague with In 2022, we further strengthened our cyber the appropriate tools and behaviours they need Survey respondents to cybersecurity defences and enhanced our cybersecurity to keep our organisation and customers' data education events who said they have capabilities to help reduce the likelihood and safe. We provide cybersecurity training and a better understanding of cybersecurity impact of unauthorised access, security awareness to all our people, ranging from our following these events.
vulnerabilities being exploited, data leakage, top executives to IT developers to front-line third-party security exposure and advanced relationship managers around the world.
malware. These defences build upon a proactive data analytical approach to help identify advanced targeted threats.
Educating customers online Our Fraud and Cyber Awareness app, which launched in the UK in May 2021, has been enhanced and extended to eight markets in the Middle East and North Africa as a pilot to improve the financial education of our customers. The app is available free of charge for both personal and business customers, and is designed to keep customers and non-customers up to date with the latest trends concerning fraud, scams and cyber-attacks. It enables users to subscribe to real-time notifications about emerging fraud and cybercrime trends. Since May 2021, the app has been downloaded approximately 28,000 times and has a 4.8 rating on Google Play and iOS app store. We plan to roll out the app to further markets in 2023.
96 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2022