Environmental, social and governance review Our ESG review sets out our approach to our environment, customers, employees and governance. It explains how we aim to achieve our purpose, deliver our strategy in a way that is sustainable, and build strong relationships with all of our stakeholders.
42 Our approach to ESG 44 Environmental 75 Social 87 Governance How we present our TCFD disclosures Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 17 and additional information is included on pages 69 and
440. Further details have been embedded in this section and the Risk review section on pages 221 to 230. Our TCFD disclosures are highlighted with the following symbol: TCFD ESG review O ur approach to ESG We continue to work to incorporate environmental, social and governance principles throughout the organisation and to embed sustainability into the way we operate.
About the ESG review Environmental - Transition to net zero Our purpose is: 'Opening up a world
- In January 2024, we published our net zero transition plan. This provides an overview of the of opportunity'.
progress we have made to date and what we plan to do next, although we acknowledge there is still much more to do.
Our purpose is guided by our values: we value difference; we succeed together; we take - We have now set combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions responsibility; and we get it done. targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas, and power and utilities, and report the combined progress for both sectors.
Our approach to ESG is shaped by our purpose and values and a desire to create sustainable Read more in the Environmental section on page 44.
long-term value for our stakeholders. We Social - Building inclusion and resilience collaborate and aim to build strong relationships with all of our stakeholders, which include the - In 2023, 34.1% of senior leadership roles were occupied by women, with a target to achieve people who work for us, bank with us, own us, 35% by 2025, although progress has not been as fast paced as we would have liked. We also regulate us, and live in the societies we serve continued on a journey to meet our ethnicity goals.
and on the planet we all inhabit to deliver the - Employee engagement, which is our headline measure, increased by three points in 2023 and ESG approach. is now seven points ahead of the external financial services benchmark.
Transition to net zero Read more in the Building inclusion and resilience section on page 75.
We have continued to take steps to implement our climate ambition to become net zero in Governance - Acting responsibly our operations and our supply chain by 2030,
- We continue to raise awareness and develop our understanding of our salient human rights and align our financed emissions to net zero issues. In 2023, we provided practical guidance and training, where relevant, to our colleagues by 2050. In January 2024, we published our across the Group on how to identify and manage human rights risk.
net zero transition plan, which is an important
- We were ranked as a top three bank against our competitors in 58% of our key six markets, milestone in our journey to achieving our net although we still have work to do to improve our rank positions.
zero ambition. The plan will help our people, customers, investors and other stakeholders to Read more in the Governance section on page 87.
understand our long-term vision, the challenges, uncertainties and dependencies that exist, the progress we are making towards our own transition and what we plan to do in the future. Building inclusion and resilience capabilities so that they can understand their Our social approach is centred around finances and manage them effectively.
In this ESG review, we publish on-balance sheet fostering inclusion and building resilience for financed emissions for thermal coal mining, in our colleagues, our customers, and in the Acting responsibly addition to other sectors we have already been communities we serve. Our governance approach focuses on acting reporting on, noting the challenge of evolving responsibly and recognises topics such as methodologies and data limitations. We also We are building a workforce that is human rights, conduct and data integrity.
publish combined on-balance sheet financed representative of the communities that we and facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and serve and we have targets and programmes in Our policies and procedures help us to provide power and utilities sectors. We expect to iterate place to ensure fair and inclusive recruitment the right outcomes for customers, including and mature our approach to supporting sector and to support the equitable progression of those with enhanced care needs, which in transitions over time. We also continue to work under-represented groups. We also strive to 2023 took into account pressures from the on improving our data management processes. create an inclusive and accessible banking increased cost of living. Customer experience experience for all of our customers, and to is at the heart of how we operate and is We continue to review policy implementation help them access the finance they need measured through customer satisfaction and as we apply our policies in practice and our without unnecessary barriers. customer complaints.
operationalisation of such policies continues to be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach Employee resilience is central to our success, We are continuing our journey to embed when identifying transactions and clients to so we provide a wide range of resources to ESG principles across the organisation, which our energy policy and thermal coal support colleagues' mental, physical and including incorporating climate risks within phase-out policies apply, and when reporting financial well-being, as well as training and the risk management framework, training on relevant exposures, adopting approaches support so that they are equipped with the our workforce, incorporating climate-related proportionate to risk and materiality. skills they need to further their careers. We targets within executive scorecards, and support customer resilience with products, engaging with customers and suppliers.
We are also working with peers and industry services and education that build their bodies to help mobilise the systemic change needed to deliver action on climate change, nature and the just transition.
42 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review How we decide what to measure We listen to our stakeholders in a number of the threshold at which ESG issues become to report against the core World Economic different ways, which we set out in more detail sufficiently important to our investors and Forum ('WEF') Stakeholder Capitalism within the 'ESG overview' on page 14. We use other stakeholders that they should be publicly Metrics, and Sustainability Accounting the information they provide us to identify the reported. Our approach to materiality also Standards Board ('SASB') metrics and will issues that are most important to them and considers disclosure standards and other continue to review our approach as the consequently also matter to our own business. applicable rules and regulations as part of our regulatory landscape evolves.
materiality assessment for specific ESG topics Our ESG Committee and other relevant and relevant disclosures. Consistent with the scope of financial governance bodies regularly discuss the new information presented in our Annual Report and existing themes and issues that matter to Given the recent developments in the ESG and Accounts, the ESG review covers the our stakeholders. Our management team then regulatory environment across various operations of HSBC Holdings plc and its uses this insight, alongside the framework jurisdictions in which we operate, combined subsidiaries. Given the relative immaturity of the ESG Guide (which refers to our with the relative immaturity of processes, of ESG-related data and methodologies obligations under the Environmental, Social systems, data quality and controls, our focus in general, we are on a journey towards and Governance Reporting Guide contained remains on supporting a globally consistent improving completeness and robustness.
in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing the set of mandatory sustainability standards.
Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange We aim to continue to evolve our reporting For further details of our material ESG topics, see of Hong Kong Limited), and the LR9.8.6R(8) to recognise market developments, such 'Engaging with our stakeholders and our material ESG topics' on page 15.
of the Financial Conduct Authority's ('FCA') as the International Sustainability Standard For further details of our approach to reporting, Listing Rules, and other applicable laws and Board ('ISSB') or the Corporate Sustainability see 'Additional information' on page 439.
regulations to choose what we measure and Reporting Directive ('CSRD'), and support the publicly report in this ESG review. Under the efforts to harmonise the disclosures. In this ESG Guide, 'materiality' is considered to be Annual Report and Accounts, we continue Our reporting around ESG We report on ESG matters throughout our Annual Report and Accounts, including the 'ESG overview' section of the Strategic Report (pages 14 to 19), this ESG review (pages 41 to 98), and the 'Climate risk' and 'Insights from climate scenario analysis' sections of the Risk review (pages 221 to 230). In addition, we have other supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.
Detailed data Additional reports ESG Data Pack 2023, including UK Pay Gap Report 2023 SASB Index 2023 and WEF Index 2023 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 2023 Green Bond Report 2023 HSBC UN Sustainable Development Goals Bond and Sukuk Report 2023 Assurance relating to ESG data TCFD HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for For 2023, ESG data is subject to stand- for thermal coal mining, and our facilitated preparation of the ESG information and all alone independent PwC limited assurance emissions for two sectors for 2019 to 2022 the supporting records, including selecting in accordance with International Standard (see page 61); appropriate measurement and reporting on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) - our thermal coal financing drawn balance criteria, in our Annual Report and Accounts, 'Assurance Engagements other than Audits or exposures for 2020 (see page 67); and ESG Data Pack and the additional reports Reviews of Historical Financial Information' and,
- our own operations' scope 1, 2 and 3 published on our website. in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions, (business travel) greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with International Standard on data (see page 64), as well as supply chain We recognise the importance of ESG Assurance Engagements 3410 'Assurance emissions data.
disclosures and the quality of data Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements', underpinning them. We also acknowledge issued by the International Auditing and The work performed for independent limited that our internal processes to support ESG Assurance Standards Board, on the following assurance is substantially less than the disclosures are in the process of being specific ESG-related disclosures and metrics: work performed for a reasonable assurance developed and currently rely on manual opinion, like those provided over financial sourcing and categorisation of data. Certain - our Green Bond Report 2023 (published in statements.
aspects of our ESG disclosures are subject December 2023); to enhanced verification and assurance - our progress towards our ambition to Our data dictionaries and methodologies for procedures including the first, second and provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of preparing the above ESG-related metrics and third line of defence. Assurance assists in sustainable finance and investment by 2030 independent PwC's limited assurance reports reducing the risk of restatement, although it (see page 49); can be found at cannot be fully eliminated given the challenges
- our on-balance sheet financed emissions esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reportingin data, evolving methodologies and emerging for 2021 and 2022 for six sectors, our on- centre.
standards. We aim to continue to enhance our balance sheet financed emissions for 2020 approach in line with external expectations.
ESG review For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting centre at ESG review | Environmental E nvironmental TCFD Transition to net zero We support the transition of our customers, industries and markets to a net zero and a sustainable future, while moving to net zero ourselves.
At a glance Our approach to transition to net zero Embedding net zero into the way Impact on reporting and Our net zero ambition represents one of we operate financial statements our four strategic pillars. In January 2024, We take a risk-based, proportionate and We have assessed the impact of climate risk we published our net zero transition plan. It iterative approach to embedding net zero on our balance sheet and have concluded that provides an overview of our approach to net into our organisation, focusing our efforts there is no material impact on the financial zero and the actions we are taking to help on where we can help drive material and statements for the year ended 31 December meet our ambition. It sets out how we are implementable change, and applying learnings 2023. The effects of climate change are a working to embed net zero across key areas as we go along. Our approach will continue source of uncertainty. We capture known and of our organisation to help ensure that we can to mature over time with evolving science, observable potential impacts of climate-related play a role in the transition to net zero in the methodologies, industry standards and risks in our asset valuations and balance sheet markets we serve. regulatory requirements, and improvements in calculations. These are considered in relevant data and in technology infrastructure. areas of our balance sheet, including expected Supporting our customers credit losses, classification and measurement To help achieve the scale and speed of change Partnering for systemic change of financial instruments, goodwill and other required to transition to net zero, we know we Our ability to achieve our own net zero intangible assets; and in making the long term need to support our customers not just with ambition is heavily reliant on the mobilisation viability and going concern assessment. As finance, but with the services, insights and of all stakeholders, public and private, across part of assessing the impact on our financial tools to help them to transition. In 2023, we multiple geographies. We continue to support statements we conducted scenario analysis to continued to provide sustainable financing systemic change through new and existing understand the impact of climate risk on our and investment to our customers in line with partnerships, and we engage through business (see page 65). For further details of our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn industry alliances and initiatives to help build a our climate risk exposures, see page 221.
to $1tn by 2030. We report our progress supportive enabling environment.
against our 2030 financed emissions targets For further details of how management and our wider progress towards net zero by considered the impact of climate-related risks on its financial position and performance, see 2050, including how we plan to engage with 'Critical estimates and judgements' on page 343.
customers in high-emitting sectors.
In this section Overview Our approach to We aim to achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050, and in Page 45 the transition our own operations and supply chain by 2030.
Understanding our To achieve our climate ambition we need to be transparent on the Page 46 climate reporting opportunities, challenges, related risks and progress we make.
Supporting our Sustainable finance Our ability to help finance the transformation of businesses and Page 49 customers and investment infrastructure is key to building a sustainable future for our customers and society.
Financed emissions We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050 Page 53 and support our clients on their transition.
Embedding net Net zero in our Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is to achieve net zero Page 63 zero into the way own operations carbon emissions in our operations and supply chain by 2030.
we operate Managing climate risk We manage climate risk across all our businesses in line with our Page 65 Group-wide risk management framework. Enhancing our climate change stress testing and scenario analysis capability is crucial in identifying and understanding climate-related risks and opportunities.
Sustainability risk policies Our sustainability risk policies seek to ensure that the financial Page 66 services that we provide to customers do not result in unacceptable impacts on people or the environment.
Partnering for Supporting systemic We collaborate with a range of partners to support the development of Page 68 systemic change change to deliver net zero an enabling environment and mobilise finance for nature and climate.
Our approach to Task Force on Climate- Our TCFD index provides our responses to each of the 11 Page 69 climate reporting related Financial recommendations and summarises where additional information Disclosures ('TCFD') can be found.
44 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Overview TCFD Our approach to the transition The Paris Agreement aims to limit the rise Responding to the challenges and Our implementation plan in global temperatures to well below 2°C, opportunities presented by net zero requires We are working to embed net zero across preferably to 1.5°C, compared with pre- us to work across HSBC to implement and our organisation. This includes embedding industrial levels. To limit the rise to 1.5°C, the embed our net zero approach, to manage net zero into: the way that we support global economy would need to reach net associated risks, and to help sustain and grow our customers, both through customer zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. value for our customers, our shareholders engagement and the provision of financing We are working to achieve a 1.5°C-aligned and our wider stakeholders. We want to solutions; the way that we operate as an phase-down of financed emissions from make financing, facilitating and investment organisation, including risk management, our portfolio. choices that can lead to a meaningful impact policies, governance and own operations; on emissions reduction in the real economy, and how we partner externally in support of In October 2020, we announced our ambition not just in our portfolio. This requires engaging systemic change. It also means focusing first to become a net zero bank by 2050 and with our customers on their transitions to help on the sectors and customers with the highest in 2021 we included the transition to net finance decarbonisation in the sectors and emissions and transition risks, and evolving zero as one of the four key pillars of our geographies with the most change ahead. and expanding our efforts over time.
corporate strategy.
In January 2024, we published our net zero Our net zero principles Our starting point in the transition to net transition plan. It provides an overview of In implementing our approach to net zero, zero is one of a heavy financed emissions our approach to net zero and the actions we aim to be guided by a set of principles footprint. Our history means our balance sheet we are taking to help meet our ambition. It which are aligned with our core values: is weighted towards the sectors and regions sets out how we intend to use our strengths science-based, transparent and accountable; which matter the most in terms of emissions, as an organisation to help deliver a broader integrating nature; and just and inclusive.
and whose transitions are therefore key to the impact on decarbonisation, how we are world's ability to reach net zero on time. This working to embed net zero across key areas For further details of our approach to the means we will have a complex transition, with of our organisation, and the principles that transition, see our Net Zero Transition Plan 2024 at  and sectors at different starting points we aim to use to guide the implementation of strategy/our-net-zero-transition-plan.
and moving at different speeds. However, it our approach.
also provides us with an opportunity to work with our customers to help make an impact Our net zero strengths
- in both the emissions challenge and the We aim to rebalance our capital deployment financing challenge. towards achieving net zero over the coming decades. We believe we can do this best by promoting change in three key areas that play to our strengths as an organisation: transitioning industry; catalysing the new economy; and decarbonising trade and supply chains.
Our net zero strengths Catalysing the Decarbonising trade Where we believe we can Transitioning industry new economy and supply chains best promote change Our implementation plan Embedding net zero into Supporting Embedding net zero into Partnering for how we engage, operate our customers the way we operate systemic change and collaborate ESG review | Environmental Understanding our climate reporting The availability of high-quality climate-related Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions data, transparent reporting standards and consistent methodology will play a vital role in helping deliver the economic transformation To measure and manage our greenhouse gas emissions, we follow the Greenhouse required to limit global warming to 1.5°C Gas Protocol global framework, which identifies three scopes of emissions. Scope 1 at the speed and scale that is needed. We represents the direct emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the indirect emissions understand that our existing data, systems, resulting from the use of electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 represents controls and processes require significant indirect emissions attributed to upstream and downstream activities. Our upstream enhancements to drive effective change, activities include business travel and emissions from our supply chain including transport, but we recognise the necessity to balance distribution and waste. Our downstream activities include those related to investments this with providing early transparency on and including financed emissions.
climate disclosures.
Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also broken down into 15 categories, of which Our stakeholder dependency we provide reporting emissions data for three related to upstream activities. These are: Critical to our approach is a recognition that purchased goods and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); and business as a bank we cannot do this alone. Our ability travel (category 6). We also report data on downstream activities for financed emissions to transition relies on decarbonisation in the (category 15).
real economy - both the supply and demand side - happening at the necessary pace. Our For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at customers and the industries and markets we serve will need to transition effectively, supported by strong government policies and regulation, and substantially scaled Our own Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 31 Our financed investment. Engagement and collaboration operations and Indirect Indirect Direct Indirect emissions supply chain are therefore key to how we respond. See page 53 See page 63 We acknowledge that to achieve our climate ambition we need to be transparent about the opportunities, challenges, related Electricity, Purchased Company risks we face and progress we make. Our hea s t t i e n a g m a nd g s o e o r d v s ic a e n s d facilities reporting must evolve to keep pace with cooling (category 1) market developments, and we will aim Company to work through challenges and seek to vehicles improve consistency across different markets.
Standard setters and regulators will play a critical role. Some of the limitations and challenges that our organisation, and the Business Capital Investments and wider industry, currently face with regard (ca t t r e a g v o e ry l 6) (ca g te o g o o d ry s 2) finan (c c a e te d g e or m y i s s ) i ons to climate reporting are highlighted on pages 47 to 48.
Upstream activities HSBC Holdings Downstream activities 1 Our analysis of financed emissions comprises 'on-balance sheet financed emissions' and 'facilitated emissions'.
Accelerating investment in Baltic offshore wind energy Polish multi-energy company Orlen Group and Canadian power producer Northland Power have set up a joint venture to build the Baltic Power project - the first offshore wind farm in Polish waters of the Baltic Sea.
In September 2023, we played a key role in supporting the construction and operation of 76 offshore turbines when we acted as a mandated lead arranger for a $3.8bn (€4.4bn) credit facility. We helped coordinate a syndicate of 25 Polish and international financial institutions to finance the project.
With a target capacity of almost 1.2 gigawatts, the wind farm is expected to represent a significant step in reducing Poland's reliance on fossil fuels and generate enough clean electricity to power the equivalent of more than 1.5 million homes annually.
46 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Understanding our climate reporting continued Keeping up-to-date with real policy and regulatory landscape, the speed This includes sourcing more reliable data from economy progress of technological innovation, major economic external providers. We are also developing our Net zero-aligned scenarios are dynamic by shifts and geopolitical events. There is also processes, systems, controls and governance nature; they are typically updated every few a risk of government or customer net zero to meet the demands of future ESG reporting.
years to incorporate significant shifts that have pledges or transition plans not turning into the Certain aspects of our reporting rely on occurred in the real economy. Key drivers necessary emissions reductions in the coming manual sourcing and categorisation of data of this include changes in the economic decade, or in the case of hard-to abate sectors, that is not always aligned with how our environment, new data on technology being pared back if technologies do not scale businesses are managed. We also have a deployment across sectors and geographies, in time. In addition, climate science, the quality dependency on emissions data from our new policies, and increased investment in of data, and the scenarios upon which we clients. Given the manual nature of the clean energy and/or in fossil fuels. have based our approach will change. We process, enhanced verification and assurance recognise that while we have limited control of procedures are performed on a sample basis The reference scenario we have selected these external dependencies, we can be clear over this reporting, including the first and to date for our published 2030 targets, for on where we intend to focus our efforts to help second line of defence. Our climate models on-balance sheet and facilitated emissions, is drive meaningful change, and that we expect undergo independent review by an internal the International Energy Agency's ('IEA') NZE to iterate and mature our approach over time. model review group, and we obtain limited 2021 scenario, which is 1.5°C-aligned with assurance on our financed emissions and limited overshoot. In September 2023, the Our internal and external data challenges sustainable finance disclosures from external IEA's NZE 2023 scenario was published as an Our climate ambition requires us to continue parties, including our external auditors.
update to reflect developments since 2021. As to enhance our capabilities including outlined in our net zero transition plan, going governance, processes, systems and controls. Policy implementation forwards we intend to review each updated In addition, there is a heightened need for We continue to review policy implementation set of 1.5°C-aligned scenarios to further subject matter experts for climate-related as we apply our policies in practice, and our develop and enhance our understanding of topics as well as upskilling of key colleague operationalisation of such policies continues to the latest outlooks for evolving pathways to groups who are supporting customers be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach achieve net zero by 2050. This will help us to through their net zero transition. We also when identifying transactions and clients to consider whether, how and when to iterate need new sources of data, some of which which our energy and thermal coal phaseand update our approach to scenario selection may be difficult to assure using traditional out policies apply, and when reporting on and target setting, portfolio alignment, and verification techniques. This challenge, relevant exposures, adopting approaches policies to keep pace with the latest science coupled with diverse external data sources proportionate to risk and materiality. This helps and real-world developments. We anticipate and structures, further complicates data to focus our efforts on areas where we believe standard setter and industry guidance on the consolidation. Our internal data on customer we can help drive meaningful change, while treatment of updated scenarios in target- groups used to source financial exposure taking into account experience from policy setting to emerge. and emissions data is based on credit and implementation over time.
relationship management attributes, and is not We recognise that the so-called 'hard-to- always aligned to the data needed to analyse An evolving approach to embedding abate' sectors, such as cement, iron, steel emissions across sector value chains. As a net zero and aluminium, and aviation have a large consequence, this can result in an inconsistent We acknowledge that our assessment of dependence on nascent technologies and basis in our financed emissions calculations. client transition plans - which to date has the presence (or not) of enabling policies focused on clients in scope of our thermal coal and regulations. We may consider tracking We continue to invest in our climate resources phase-out and energy policies - is at an early progress relative to 1.5°C-aligned ambition and skills. Our activities are underpinned stage with initial learnings on methodology ranges for these sectors in the future, which by efforts to develop our data and analytics and client engagement. We are also at could include industry-specific scenarios capabilities and to help ensure that we have the the early stages of embedding transition alongside the IEA NZE scenario. appropriate processes, systems, controls and plans alongside financed emissions into governance in place to support our transition. transaction and portfolio level business and Critical dependencies risk processes. Our net zero transition plan Progress in the real economy towards net We continue to increase automation of provides further details of work underway and zero will likely be non-linear and will depend our processes, with a particular focus on planned.
heavily on external factors including the developing our ESG data capabilities to help address data gaps and improve consistency.
Limited alignment on sustainable finance taxonomies Sustainable finance metrics, taxonomies and best practices lack global consistency. As standards develop over time and as the regulatory guidance around them evolves across jurisdictions, our methodologies, disclosures and targets may need to evolve. This could lead to differences in year-on-year reporting and restatements.
We continue to engage with standard setters in different regions to support the development of transparent and consistent taxonomies to best incentivise science-based decarbonisation, particularly in high transition risk sectors. We aim to align to enhanced industry standards as they are further developed, and increase transparency across the different types of green and sustainable finance and investment categories going forward.
ESG review | Environmental Understanding our climate reporting continued Financed emissions reporting challenges certain disclosures. In 2023, there has been The methodologies and data used to assess an impact on certain climate disclosures, Continuing to evolve our financed emissions and set targets continue as follows: climate disclosures to evolve alongside changes to industry We understand the need to provide early guidance, market practice and regulation. We - Financed emissions: we improved our transparency on climate disclosures but we plan to refine our analysis using appropriate methodology for calculating financed must balance this with the recognition that data sources and current methodologies emissions using more granular product our existing data and reporting processes available for the sectors we analyse. We have identification to isolate exposure in scope, require significant enhancements. Due developed an internal recalculation policy (see more consistent emission factors for to ongoing data availability and quality page 56) to define the circumstances under estimates, and a revised aggregation method challenges, we continue to assess our which a recalculating of financed emissions for emission intensity. Previously reported on- financed emissions for our real estate and is necessary to help support the consistency, balance sheet numbers included non-lending agriculture sectors.
comparability and relevance of our reported exposures for market products in error. The emissions data over time. more granular product identification will help We are engaging with standard setters to ensure these are not included in future. support the development of transparent We have now set combined on-balance sheet - Financed emissions: to reflect these and consistent climate-related industry financed emissions and facilitated emissions enhancements we have set out the standards in areas such as product targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil recalculated metrics for the oil and gas, and labelling, sustainability disclosures, and gas, and power and utilities, and report power and utilities sectors in the financed sustainable finance taxonomy and the combined progress for both sectors. We emissions section. The oil and gas baseline emissions accounting. Voluntary industry continue to report on-balance sheet financed for on-balance sheet financed emissions is initiatives can also help shape action and emissions and targets for cement, iron, steel now 28.4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide collaboration, and often form the basis of and aluminium, aviation, automotive and in equivalent ('Mt COe') for 2019 versus 33.0 future climate policy and regulation. For 2023 we added thermal coal mining financed Mt COe reported i 2 n the Annual Report example, we supported the TCFD, which is emissions. and Ac 2 counts 2022. The power and utilities now referenced in climate disclosure rules baseline for on-balance sheet financed around the world.
Emissions related to our insurance business emissions is now 537.5 tonnes of carbon are partially captured within the disclosures of dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour ('tCOe/ In 2024, we will continue to review our HSBC Asset Management, which manages GWh') for 2019 versus 589.9 tCOe/GWh 2 approach to disclosures, and enhance the vast majority of our insurance assets. The reported in the Annual Report and 2 Accounts as appropriate.
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials 2022. For other sectors, changes were not ('PCAF') standard for insurance associated material enough to warrant a recalculation.
emissions (part C) is not applicable to our - Shipping: following a reduction in our
- Thermal coal exposures: we have now insurance business as HSBC Insurance exposure to the shipping sector after the revised the basis of preparation for our focuses on the manufacturing of life strategic sale of part of our European thermal coal exposures. Aligned with our insurance products. shipping portfolio in 2023, and work thermal coal phase-out policy, we applied a undertaken to assess the materiality of risk-based approach to identify clients and In November 2023, our asset management our remaining portfolio from a financed report on relevant exposures. Our thermal business updated its 2022 thermal coal emissions perspective, we have concluded coal financing drawn balance exposure was phase-out policy and released a new energy that the remaining exposure as of year-end approximately $1bn† as at 31 December policy. It continues to focus on its portfolios' 2023 is not material enough to warrant
2020. We continue to work on our 2021 and scope 1 and scope 2 decarbonisation setting a stand-alone target. This aligns with 2022 numbers based on our revised basis of target for 2030 with the aim of aligning Net-Zero Banking Alliance ('NZBA') guidelines preparation and expect to report on these in with net zero emissions by 2050 or sooner. on sector inclusion for target setting.
future disclosures.
The commitment covers listed equity and corporate fixed income where data is most - Thermal coal power financed emissions: we For details of assurance over our ESG data, see reliable and methodologies are most mature. have discontinued separate tracking and page 43.
reporting of thermal coal power financed For details of our approach to calculating In January 2023, we withdrew our emissions. A review of the counterparties financed emissions and the relevant data and methodology limitations, see page 55.
commitment to the Science Based Targets included within the on-balance sheet For details of our sustainable finance and initiative ('SBTi'), which we had made in 2016, financed emissions calculation showed that investment ambition, see page 49.
because we determined that it would not be the majority of thermal coal power entities For details of our approach to thermal coal feasible for us to meet SBTi's requirement in scope are included in other financed financing exposures, see page 67.
to submit a complete set of sector targets emission sector targets. We previously For further details of our asset management for validation by its deadline. We continue to set separate targets to reduce on-balance policies, see page 67.
engage with SBTi on guidance for financial sheet financed emissions for thermal coal † Data is subject to independent limited assurance by institutions and we participated in SBTi's power and thermal coal mining aligned to PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ ISAE 3410. For consultation process on its revised standards our thermal coal phase-out policy. We plan further details, see our Financed Emissions and during the year. to maintain a financed emissions target for Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology and PWC's thermal coal mining only, and have set an limited assurance report, which are available at revisions absolute on-balance sheet reduction target business/esg-reporting-centre.
We are committed to timely and transparent for 2030 from a 2020 baseline. We used 2020 reporting. However, we recognise that as a baseline to align with those applied to challenges on data sourcing, as well as the our drawn balance exposure targets. These evolution of our processes and industry targets reflect the percentage reduction that standards, may result in us having to restate the IEA indicates in its net zero emissions scenario for global emissions to 2030.
48 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Supporting our customers Sustainable finance and investment TCFD We recognise that we have an important role Since 1 January 2020, we have provided lending transactions increased by 7% to play in supporting the transition to a net and facilitated $267.8bn of sustainable compared with 2022. In 2023, transactions zero global economy. As a global organisation finance and $26.6bn of ESG and sustainable totalling $0.7bn were identified as no longer with a presence in the regions and sectors investing, as defined in our Sustainable fulfilling our eligibility criteria. These were where most significant change is needed, we Finance and Investment Data Dictionary declassified and removed from the cumulative are well placed to help transition industry and 2023. This included 38% where the use of progress total, and reported as a negative catalyse the new economy to reach net zero. proceeds were dedicated to green financing, entry in 2023.
12% to social financing, and 15% to other Progress on our sustainable finance sustainable financing. It also included 26% Continued progress towards achieving and investment ambition of sustainability-linked financing and 9% our sustainable finance and investment We aim to help our customers transition to of net new investment flows managed and ambition is dependent on market demand net zero and a sustainable future by providing distributed on behalf of investors. In 2023, our for the products and services set out in our and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of underwriting of green, social, sustainability Sustainable Finance and Investment Data sustainable finance and investment by 2030. and sustainability-linked bonds for clients Dictionary 2023.
Our sustainable finance and investment decreased over the year, measured on a ambition aims to help promote green, proportional share basis, in line with the sustainable and socially-focused business wider bond market environment, although and sustainable investment products it remained at 15% of our total bond and solutions. underwriting. On-balance sheet sustainable Cumulative progress 2023 2022 2021 2020 since 2020 Sustainable finance and investment summary1 ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) ($bn) Balance sheet-related transactions provided 42.7 42.2 26.0 10.4 121.3 Capital markets/advisory (facilitated) 33.3 34.5 48.7 30.0 146.5 ESG and sustainable investing (net new flows) 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 26.6 Total contribution2 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 294.4 Sustainable finance and investment classification by theme Green use of proceeds3,4 37.1 29.0 27.1 18.9 112.1 Social use of proceeds3 8.4 6.7 11.3 9.7 36.1 Other sustainable use of proceeds3,5 10.7 12.6 11.7 8.3 43.3 Sustainability-linked6 19.8 28.4 24.6 3.5 76.3 ESG and sustainable investing7 7.7 7.5 7.7 3.7 26.6 Total contribution2,8 83.7 84.2 82.4 44.1 294.4 1 The 2023 data in this table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023, which includes green, social and sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided, the proportional share of facilitated capital markets/advisory activities and the net new flows of sustainable investments within assets under management.
2 The $294.4bn cumulative progress since 2020 is subject to PwC's limited assurance in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) 'Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information'. For our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023 and PwC's limited assurance report, see 3 For green, social and other sustainable use of proceeds, the capital markets products are aligned to the International Capital Markets Association's ('ICMA') Green Bond Principles, Social Bond Principles or Sustainability Bond Guidelines or the Climate Bonds Initiative as applicable. The lending labelled products are aligned to the Green Loan Principles ('GLP') or Social Loan Principles of the Loan Market Association ('LMA'), Asia-Pacific Loan Market Association ('APLMA') and the Loan Syndications and Trading Association ('LSTA') as applicable; or for our sustainable trade instruments, are aligned to HSBC's internal sustainable trade instrument principles which are based on the GLP and reference the UN SDGs. Also included are facilities where HSBC identifies that the use of proceeds would meet eligibility criteria as defined and approved by appropriate governance committees but these are not labelled or marketed as green or social.
4 Included within the total cumulative contribution towards our ambition are transactions to customers within the six high transition risk sectors (i.e. automotive, chemicals, construction and building materials, metal and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities) as described on page 223. Of which approximately $37bn is defined as green use of proceeds in line with the Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023.
5 Sustainable use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes.
6 Our sustainability-linked labelled products are aligned to either the ICMA Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles or the Sustainability-Linked Loan Principles of the LMA, APLMA and the LSTA as applicable. The coupon or interest rate is dependent on whether the borrower achieves predefined sustainability performance targets. The funds can be used for general purposes.
7 Net new flows of both HSBC-owned (Asset Management) sustainable investment funds and Wealth and Global Private Banking investments assessed against the Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2023.
8 Additional detailed information on our sustainable finance and investment progress can be found in the ESG Data Pack at ESG review | Environmental Sustainable finance and investment continued Sustainable finance and investment For example, we increased our funding from definitions $5bn to $9bn for our sustainable finance Our sustainable finance and Our data dictionary defining our sustainable scheme that supports businesses of all sizes investment data dictionary finance and investment continues to evolve, in China's Greater Bay Area to transition to We define sustainable finance and and is reviewed annually to take into account low-carbon operations. The scheme, launched investment as any form of financial the evolving standards, taxonomies and in 2022, provides successful loan applicants service that integrates ESG criteria into practices we deem appropriate. This involves access to a range of additional services business or investment decisions. This reviewing and strengthening our product including training, subsidised third-party includes financing, investing and advisory definitions, where appropriate, adding assessments and assistance from a team activities that support the achievement and deleting qualifying products, making with sustainable financing expertise. For our of UN Sustainable Development Goals enhancements to our internal standards, and Wealth and Personal Banking customers, we ('SDGs'), including but not limited to the developing our reporting and governance. launched green mortgages in Mexico, electric aims of the Paris Agreement on climate vehicle loans in India and a referral service to change.
Industry and regulatory guidance on our electric vehicle leasing partner in the UK.
definitions for sustainable finance continue Details of our revised definitions of the to evolve. In 2023, the Glasgow Financial In 2023, we introduced an internal briefing contributing activities for sustainable Alliance for Net Zero ('GFANZ'), NZBA series called Net Zero in Practice, which finance and investment and how we and the UK government released work-in- covers new technologies relevant to the net calculate the amounts we count are progress definitions of transition finance. zero transition, drawing on expertise from available in our Sustainable Finance and We will continue to monitor these and across the organisation and highlighting Investment Data Dictionary 2023.
other developments in sustainable finance financing opportunities and case studies.
definitions. For our ESG Data Pack and Sustainable We continue to be a participant in the Just Finance and Investment Data Dictionary, see Our progress will be published each year, Energy Transition Partnerships ('JETPs') in esg-and-responsible-business/esgand we will seek to continue for it to be Indonesia and Vietnam, and in the Nexus reporting-centre.
independently assured. for Water, Food and Energy in Egypt.
These initiatives aim to play a catalytic Mobilising capital to support role in mobilising finance to accelerate the our customers energy transition. For further details of our In 2023, we continued to focus on providing involvement with the JETPs, see page 68.
our customers with products, services and initiatives to help enable emissions reduction In 2023, we won three awards at the in the real economy. Environmental Finance Bond Awards. We retained the Euromoney award for Best Bank for Sustainable Finance in Asia for the sixth year in a row, and won the global award for Best Bank for Public Sector Clients in recognition of our innovation in sustainability and tokenised public-sector bonds.
Developing sustainable food supply chains in south-east Asia Singapore-based Glife Technologies has developed a digital business-to-business foodsourcing platform that connects farmers from marginalised communities in south-east Asia to the hospitality industry.
The distribution network, served by an app, aims to improve the efficiency and sustainability of supply chains by aggregating orders and sourcing in bulk direct from farmers, in order to help control costs and reduce the risk of food waste from damage or contamination.
In June 2023, we provided a working capital loan and access to our cross-border network to help Glife expand its platform into new markets, including Malaysia and Indonesia. The loan also aims to help Glife finance social projects seeking to improve food security and creating more sustainable food systems. The loan was drawn from HSBC's New Economy fund, which is dedicated to investing in high-growth, pre-profit new economy businesses in Singapore.
50 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Sustainable finance and investment continued Responsible and sustainable investment HSBC Asset Management's fixed income, Helping customers to We offer a broad suite of ESG capabilities equity and stewardship teams held over 2,000 across asset management, global markets, meetings with companies in its portfolios. This understand ESG in their wealth, private banking and securities included engaging with companies on the services, to help institutional and individual priority list across several thematic priorities, investments investors to generate financial returns, manage such as climate change, human rights, public risk and pursue ESG-related opportunities. health, inclusive growth and shared prosperity, We have launched new metrics to biodiversity and nature, trusted technology help our Global Private Banking and Our Asset Management business is and data, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Wealth customers understand the committed to further developing our ESG performance of their investments.
sustainable product range across asset For our private banking and wealth customers, In selected markets in 2023, we also classes, as well as enhancing our existing we expanded our investment offering with introduced a sustainability preference product suite for ESG and climate-related the launch of eight ESG and sustainable questionnaire to help identify and criteria where it is in the investors' interests investing mutual funds and exchange-traded understand our customers' sustainable to do so. In 2023, we launched 10 funds funds in 2023. We also enhanced our ESG investing objectives and ambitions. By within our ESG and sustainable strategies, and sustainable investing structured products improving clarity on ESG performance, which adhere to, and are classified within, offering linked to indices such as the MSCI which traditional financial metrics fail to our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data World Islamic ESG Select 8% Risk Control capture, we aim to provide customers Dictionary 2023. Index. Throughout 2023, we published regular with meaningful insights to enable ESG and sustainability-related market insights them to make informed investment HSBC Asset Management managed over and updates such as #WhyESGMatters decisions. Examples of these metrics, $684bn assets at the end of 2023, of which and Learning about ESG to help clients available on digital platforms in selected $73.3bn comprise assets of funds and better understand the implications for markets, are: mandates invested in our ESG and sustainable their investments.
strategies. - 'ESG rating and score', which HSBC Life, our insurance business, continues measures a company's resilience to Our ESG and sustainable investing approach to expand the availability of ESG investment material long-term, industry ESG risks across different investment products can fund options within its investment-linked and opportunities, with data provided include but is not limited to the UN SDGs, products. In 2023, eight new ESG funds were by MSCI.
including climate. For the avoidance of introduced across Hong Kong, France and
- 'Carbon intensity', which measures doubt, assets invested pursuant to, or Singapore with a range of investment themes, a company's carbon emissions per considered to be in alignment with, HSBC's including environmental, circular economy million of revenue, with data provided ESG and sustainable investing approach and sustainable energy.
by S&P Trucost.
do not necessarily qualify as 'sustainable investments' as defined by the EU Sustainable In June, under the United Nations Environment In addition, we have also introduced Finance Disclosures Regulation ('SFDR') Programme Finance Initiative ('UNEP FI') 'HSBC ESG and sustainable investing or other relevant regulations. Our ESG and Principles for Sustainable Insurance, HSBC classifications', which help customers sustainable investing approach is an HSBC Life co-led a team of insurance organisations to understand and identify ESG and internal classification approach used to to publish an industry position paper focused sustainable investing products in their establish our own ESG and sustainable on the role and opportunity for life and health investment portfolio according to investing criteria (recognising the subjectivity insurers to help build a more inclusive and HSBC's definition.
inherent in such an approach and the preventative healthcare model. This included variables involved). It is also used to promote examples of good industry practice to: help consistency across asset classes and business insurers improve access to healthcare; close lines where relevant, and should not be relied the health protection gap; drive better health on externally to assess the sustainability outcomes across populations; and mitigate characteristics of any given product. There potential health risks due to climate change is no single global standard definition of, or and other environmental factors.
measurement criteria for, ESG and sustainable investing or the impact of ESG and sustainable For further details of our asset management investing products. policies, see page 67.
We seek to take an active stewardship role to help drive positive change in the companies on our priority list in which we invest on behalf of our customers. The priority list, which is defined in our Global Stewardship Plan, can be found at: en/institutional-investor/about-us/responsibleinvesting/-/media/files/attachments/uk/ policies/stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.
ESG review | Environmental Sustainable finance and investment continued TCFD Unlocking climate solutions In 2023, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee and innovation Agency of the World Bank Group issued HSBC Backing new technology We recognise the need to find new solutions Holdings a guarantee of $1.8bn in regulatory and innovation and increase the pace of change for the world capital relief on mandatory reserves held by At the COP28 Summit in the UAE, HSBC to achieve the Paris Agreement goal of being its subsidiary in Mexico. The benefits of the pledged its support for the Energy net zero by 2050. capital relief are expected to be deployed to Transition Accelerator Financing Platform, exclusively support eligible climate finance which aims to scale up the development We are working with a range of partners projects in Mexico, including renewable of renewable energy projects in to accelerate investment in sustainable energy, energy efficiency, clean transportation developing countries. Established infrastructure, natural resources and climate and sustainable agriculture. in 2021 with initial support from the technology to help reduce emissions and Abu Dhabi Fund for Development and address climate change. The HSBC Alternatives business, part of HSBC the International Renewable Energy Asset Management, continued to develop its Agency, the platform brings together Sustainable infrastructure energy transition infrastructure capabilities public and private institutions. HSBC Addressing climate change requires the in Asia, targeting investments in renewable signed alongside the European Bank for rapid development of a new generation of energy generation, storage, grids, charging Reconstruction and Development, the sustainable infrastructure. and hydrogen infrastructure. To help support International Finance Corporation and the transition to green energy in North Asia, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee HSBC continues to support the FAST-Infra the energy transition infrastructure strategy Agency. We will work with platform Initiative, which we helped conceive, working made its first investment in solar photovoltaic partners to expand the pipeline of with the IFC, OECD, the World Bank's Global power project developer Tekoma Energy. investable projects in core HSBC markets, Infrastructure Facility and the Climate Policy including in Asia and the Middle East, Initiative, under the auspices of the One Natural capital as an emerging bringing financing solutions that support Planet Lab. In 2023, the initiative, which aims asset class the transition to net zero.
to mobilise large-scale financing to develop Climate Asset Management, a joint venture sustainable infrastructure, invited pilot we launched with climate investment and We also became a founding member photovoltaic and wind power projects around advisory firm Pollination in 2020, continues to of the Global Climate Finance Centre, a the world to apply for the provisional FAST- create investment opportunities for investors newly launched UAE-based think tank Infra label. The label is awarded to projects to help protect biodiversity and support the created to connect public and private that meet specific sustainability criteria. HSBC transition to net zero. finance to help accelerate the transition is supporting the introduction and widespread to net zero.
adoption of the labelling system as a standard It offers two investment strategies that for sustainable infrastructure assets globally. aim to build resilience across landscapes HSBC Alternatives made direct while generating returns. Its nature-based investments in assets that help to Label applicants included a solar photovoltaic carbon strategy targets nature restoration promote the transition to a net zero project submitted by Pentagreen Capital, and conservation projects in developing climate. The venture capital strategy our sustainable infrastructure debt financing economies, prioritising community benefits invests across four themes: power partnership with Singapore-based investment while generating high-quality carbon transformation, transport electrification, firm Temasek. The project sponsor was credits. Its natural capital strategy invests in supply chain sustainability and climate Citicore Solar Energy Corporation, a subsidiary agriculture, forestry and environmental assets risk mitigation. The strategy raised of the Philippines-focused renewable energy and aims to deliver impact at scale alongside additional funds from institutional and developer and operator Citicore Renewable long-term financial returns. private wealth clients over the course Energy Corporation. Pentagreen acted as of 2023. As of 31 December 2023, the lead arranger of a $100m green loan facility On behalf of these strategies in 2023, Climate strategy had deployed capital into eight and committed an initial $30m to help Asset Management allocated more than $400m start-up companies. These included fund Citicore's development of six solar to projects in Kenya, Uganda, Malawi, Spain, US-based Electric Era, which provides power projects capable of generating 490 Australia and Portugal. electric vehicle fast-charging technology, megawatts of electricity for the island of and Israel-based SeeTree, which has Luzon in the Philippines. The commitment developed a software platform that tracks marks Pentagreen's first investment in the health and productivity of trees.
the construction of ready-to-build clean energy projects.
52 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Financed emissions TCFD We announced our ambition to become a net They form part of our scope 3 emissions, against the financed emissions baselines that zero bank in October 2020, including an aim which include emissions associated with the we now measure ourselves against.
to align our financed emissions to net zero use of a company's products and services.
by 2050 or sooner. We have published initial Following a reduction in our exposure to the financed emissions targets for 2030, and plan to In 2021, we started measuring financed shipping sector after the strategic sale of part review them in five-year increments thereafter. emissions for oil and gas, and power and of our European shipping portfolio in 2023, utilities. Following the December 2023 release and work undertaken to assess the materiality Our analysis of financed emissions comprises of the PCAF Global GHG Accounting Standard of our remaining portfolio from a financed 'on-balance sheet financed emissions' and for capital markets, we now include facilitated emissions perspective, we have concluded 'facilitated emissions', which we distinguish emissions for these sectors, in recognition of that the remaining exposure as of year-end where necessary in our reporting. Our on- our role as service provider when customers 2023 is not material enough to warrant setting balance sheet financed emissions include issue debt and equity to investors. For target a stand-alone target. This aligns with NZBA emissions related to on-balance sheet setting we now track the combined progress guidelines on sector inclusion for target setting.
lending, such as project finance and direct for on-balance sheet financed and facilitated lending. Our facilitated emissions include emissions. We have announced a number of planned emissions related to financing we help clients business disposals in recent years, and we will to raise through capital markets activities. Our In 2022, we disclosed the on-balance sheet continue to consider how these may impact analysis covers financing from Global Banking financed emissions targets for the following future disclosures, including recalculations.
and Markets, and Commercial Banking. additional sectors: cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; and automotive. We also For all sectors other than oil and gas and Financed emissions link the financing we set a target, and now measure, on-balance thermal coal mining, we have set emissions provide to our customers and their activities sheet financed emissions for the thermal coal intensity targets. These targets are linked to in the real economy, and provide an indication mining sector. As part of our financial reporting, real world production and help us to deploy of the associated greenhouse gas emissions. we present the progress for these sectors capital towards decarbonisation solutions.
Our approach to financed emissions In our approach to assessing our financed industry, we can focus our engagement and value of finance provided to customers. We emissions, our key methodological decisions resources where we believe the potential for excluded products that were short term by were shaped in line with industry practices change is highest. For each sector, our reported design, and typically less than 12 months and standards. We recognise these are emissions now typically include all the major in duration, consistent with guidance from still developing. greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, the PCAF, to reduce volatility. For facilitated methane and nitrous oxide, among others. emissions we considered all capital market Coverage of our analysis These are reported as tonnes of CO equivalent, transactions in scope for the year of analysis.
For each sector, our analysis focuses on the in line with NZBA guidelines. These included debt and equity capital parts of the value chain where we believe the markets, and syndicated loans.
majority of emissions are produced to help To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed reduce double counting of emissions. By emissions, we use drawn balances as at 31 For further details of our financed emissions estimating emissions and setting targets for December in the year of analysis related to methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures customers that directly account for, or indirectly wholesale credit and lending, which include Methodology at influence, the majority of emissions in each business loans and project finance as the esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
The chart below shows the scope of our financed emissions analysis of the seven sectors, including upstream, midstream and downstream activities within each sector. The allocation of companies to different parts of the value chain is highly dependent on expert judgement and data available on company revenue streams. As data quality improves, this will be further refined.
Coverage of greenhouse Sector Scope of emissions Value chain in scope gases ('GHGs') Oil and gas 1, 2 and 3 Upstream Midstream D ownstream Integrated/ All GHGs (e.g. extraction) (e.g. transport) (e.g . fuel use) diversified Upstream Midstream Downstream Power and utilities 1 and 2 (e.g. transmission All GHGs (e.g. generation) and distribution) (e.g. retail) Cement 1 and 2 Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream (e.g clinker Downstream All GHGs materials, e xtraction ) and cement manufacturing) (e.g. construction ) Iron, steel and Upstream (e.g. raw Midstream Downstream aluminium 1 and 2 materials, extr action) (e.g. ore to steel) (e.g. construction) All GHGs Aviation 1 for airlines , Upstrea m Midstream Downstream All GHGs 3 for aircraft lessors (e.g. parts manufacture rs) (e.g. aircraft manufacturing) (e.g. airlines and air less ors) Automotive 1, 2 and 3 (e. U g. p s s u tr p e p a l m iers) (e.g m . M a m i n d o u s t f t o a r r e c a v tu m e r h e i ) cle D ( o e w .g n . s re tr t e a a il m ) All GHGs Thermal coal mining 1, 2 and 3 Upstream Midstream Downstream All GHGs (e.g. extraction) (e.g. processing) (e.g. retail) Key: Included in analysis ESG review | Environmental Financed emissions continued Setting our targets Agriculture Our target-setting approach to date, for For the agriculture sector, due to ongoing on-balance sheet financed emissions and data availability and quality challenges, and facilitated emissions, has been to utilise a lack of developed methodologies, we are not single net zero reference scenario (IEA NZE in a position to report our financed emissions 2021) to underpin both energy supply-related or set a target at this time. We aim to build sectors (oil and gas, power and utilities, data availability and continue to work with and thermal coal mining) and our published partners and industry bodies to develop data targets for demand-side sectors in transport and methodologies across a wider section of and heavy industry. the agriculture value chain - such as farmrelated and downstream emissions, including The impact of our capital markets activities from the food and beverage sector - while is now reflected in our combined financed assessing the make-up of our portfolio.
emissions targets for the oil and gas, and Investing in battery power and utilities sectors. Our facilitated Residential real estate emissions, included in our combined metrics, For residential real estate, where our health and monitoring are weighted at 33%, in accordance with customers are consumers not corporates, the PCAF standard. This approach dampens our approach needs to consider financial solutions volatility, apportions responsibility between inclusivity, and our ability to provide customers underwriters and asset owners, and allows access to suitable mortgages in addition to The global push towards electrification for flexibility in deploying on and off-balance decarbonisation aims. We expect to measure is accelerating the demand for sheet financing in line with clients' needs. and report our residential real estate financed systems powered by safe, reliable and To further reduce the inherent volatility in emissions in future disclosures. We continue sustainable batteries.
facilitated emissions, we apply a three-year to consider our approach to setting an moving average across transactions for our appropriate target to measure our contribution In August 2023, HSBC Asset target metric, building up from 2019 data. This to helping the sector transition. Management, as part of its climate means that transactions facilitated in 2028 tech venture capital strategy, helped a and 2029 will still have an impact on the 2030 Commercial real estate Germany-based analytics software startprogress number and will need to be taken For commercial real estate, we continue to up secure $7.8m (€7.2m) of investment into consideration as we manage progress work towards outlining a baseline and a 2030 in its battery monitoring platform, towards our target. We aim to achieve our financed emissions ambition or ambition with HSBC Asset Management's fund target in 2030 notwithstanding the application range, starting with our major markets and providing $4.1m (€3.8m).
of a three-year average. where sufficient data is available to track decarbonisation progress. We expect to ACCURE Battery Intelligence uses AI, Our approach for financed emissions review our approach and coverage periodically field data and modelling to forecast and accounting does not rely on purchasing in line with evolving data, methodologies, manage the health and performance offsets to achieve any financed emissions scenarios and real-world progress. of batteries, and predict failures, fires targets we set. Methodologies for embedded carbon and other incidents. With their software need to be developed given the materiality already supporting 3.5 gigawatt-hours An evolving approach of financing new property development of storage, the fundraising will help We believe methodologies for calculating within our portfolio, from a financed expand and develop the platform financed emissions and setting targets should emissions perspective. across energy, electric vehicle, transit, be transparent and comparable, and should marine, insurance and other industries provide science-based insights that focus worldwide.
engagement efforts, inform capital allocation and support the development of solutions that are both timely and impactful. We continue to engage with regulators, standard setters and industry bodies to help shape our approach to measuring financed emissions and managing portfolio alignment to net zero. We also work with data providers and our clients to help us gather data from the real economy to improve our analysis.
Scenarios used in our analysis are modelled on assumptions of the available carbon budget and actions that need to be taken to limit the long-term increase in average global temperatures to 1.5°C with limited overshoot.
We expect that the scenarios we use will be updated periodically. We plan to refine our own analysis of financed emissions as industry guidance on scenarios, data and methodologies more broadly evolve in the years ahead.
54 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Financed emissions continued Data and methodology limitations Our financed emissions estimates and - Third-party datasets that feed into our - The classification of our clients into methodological choices are shaped by analysis may have up to a two-year lag sectors is performed with inputs from the availability of data for the sectors in reported emissions figures, and we subject matter experts, and will also we analyse. are working with data providers to help continue to evolve with improvements reduce this. Mapping external datasets to to data and our sector classification
- We are members of the PCAF, which our internal client entities is challenging approach. Our internal data on customer defines and develops greenhouse gas due to complex company ownership groups used to source financial exposure accounting standards for financial structures. and emissions data is based on credit and institutions. Its Global GHG Accounting - The methodology and data used to relationship management attributes and and Reporting Standards for Financed assess financed emissions and set targets is not always aligned to the data needed Emissions and for Facilitated Emissions are new and evolving, and we expect to analyse emissions across sector value provide detailed methodological guidance industry guidance, market practice, chains. As a consequence, this can result to measure and disclose financed and and regulations to continue to change. in an inconsistent basis in our financed facilitated emissions. We plan to refine our analysis using emissions calculations. As the sub-sector,
- We have found that data quality scores appropriate data sources and current and therefore the value chain classification vary across the different sectors and years methodologies available for the sectors is based on judgement, this may be of our analysis, although not significantly. we analyse. revised as better data becomes available.
Emissions are calculated at a counterparty While we expect our data quality scores - We remain conscious that the attribution group level and each client is mapped to to improve over time, as companies factor used in the financed emissions a single sector. Companies with multiple continue to expand their disclosures to calculation is sensitive to changes in activities such as conglomerates, with meet growing regulatory and stakeholder drawn amounts or market fluctuations, near to equal business activity split across expectations, there may be fluctuations and we plan to be transparent around multiple sectors, are excluded as these within sectors year on year, and/or drivers for change to portfolio financed can have different activities covered by differences in the data quality scores emissions where possible.
multiple sector targets. Once we define a between sectors due to changes in data
- To calculate sector-level baselines and methodology for conglomerates these may availability.
annual updates, our portfolio-level be covered according to their activity split.
- The majority of our clients do not yet emissions intensity was previously
- The operating environment for climate report the full scope of greenhouse weighted by the ratio of our financing analysis and portfolio alignment is gas emissions included in our analysis, in relation to the value of the financed maturing. We continue to work to improve in particular scope 3 emissions. In the company. We believe this introduced our data management processes, and absence of client-reported emissions, we volatility. We have now calculated sector are implementing steering mechanisms estimated emissions using proxies based level emissions intensity metrics using to align our provision of finance with on company production and revenue a portfolio-weighted approach. Due to the goals and timelines of the Paris figures. Although we sought to minimise data limitations, we are unable to obtain Agreement.
the use of non-company-specific data, we production data for all of our clients. We applied industry averages in our analysis therefore calculate an emissions intensity For further details of our financed emissions where company-specific data was figure using the 75th percentile to meet methodology, see our Financed Emissions unavailable through our vendor datasets. this data gap. and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology at As data improves, estimates will be  with reported figures. responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
Tackling operational emissions in industry We are supporting one of the largest producers of textile raw materials in Indonesia to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions in its operations. PT. Indo-Rama Synthetics Tbk, which specialises in the integrated production of spun yarn and polyester, wanted to expand its operations and meet its customer demand in a sustainable way.
To help PT. Indo-Rama Synthetics Tbk invest in reducing energy consumption, we provided a $20m green loan in September 2023 so that it can install energy efficient machinery and technology in the expansion of its yarn spinning factory.
ESG review | Environmental Financed emissions continued Our approach to financed emissions recalculations The PCAF recommends that financial over time. Our recalculation policy covers to the target. Enhancements to internal institutions should, in line with the Greenhouse revisions of metrics linked to the targets due or external data, such as changes to the Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope to changes in financed emissions accounting, classification of the population to a different 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard such as changes to methodology, errors, business activity type or more, or improved requirement, establish a recalculation policy. and improvements to data. We expect our quality data reported by clients, would not To adhere to this recommendation, we have recalculation policy to evolve with further constitute a change to the financed emissions defined the circumstances under which we industry guidance. estimation methodology or an error.
consider a recalculation of baseline and/or progress against financed emissions target The table below outlines the action we take metrics is necessary to help ensure the when key areas of change, individually or in consistency, comparability and relevance of aggregate, breach our defined significance the reported greenhouse gas emissions data thresholds for the baseline year metric linked Key reasons for change What we expect to disclose Changes to the financed - The reasons why applying the new metrics provides reliable and more relevant information emissions methodology such as
- The actions being taken to remediate same or similar errors in the future changes to design choices
- The nature of the change(s) and errors in financed emissions accounting impacting the baseline progress metric and all prior year progress metrics disclosed as far as is practicable Errors such as a failure to carry
- The aggregate amount of any adjustments impacting the baseline progress metric and all prior year out our methodology or errors in progress metrics disclosed as far as is practicable internal financial data
- The change in financed emissions accounting baseline progress metric and all prior year progress metrics disclosed as far as is practicable In 2023, we improved our methodology To reflect these enhancements we have set and the remaining 38% (1.8 Mt COe) was for calculating financed emissions using out the recalculated metrics for the oil and due to the enhanced product mapping and more granular product identification to gas, and power and utilities sectors in the streamlined approach for emissions estimates.
isolate exposure in scope, more consistent table below. For other sectors, changes were emission factors for estimates, and a revised not material enough to warrant a recalculation. The power and utilities baseline for on-balance aggregation method for emissions intensity. sheet financed emissions is now 537.5 tonnes Previously some reported on-balance sheet The oil and gas baseline for on-balance sheet of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt numbers included non-lending exposures for financed emissions is now 28.4 million tonnes hour ('tCOe/GWh') for 2019 versus 589.9 market products in error. The more granular of carbon dioxide equivalent ('Mt COe') for tCOe/GWh reported in the Annual Report 2 2 product identification will help ensure these 2019 versus 33.0 Mt COe reported in the and Accounts 2022. This change reflects the are not included in future. Annual Report and Accounts 2022. Of this implementation of the revised aggregation change, 62% (2.9 Mt COe) was related to method and enhanced product mapping.
the inclusion of non-lending products in error Revisions Previously reported Recalculated metrics Percentage change Sector Reporting metrics 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 Oil and gas On-balance sheet financed - Mt COe 33.0 30.1 28.4 25.0 (14)% (17)% Facilitated (100% weighting) - Mt COe 29.5 N/A 43.2 N/A 47% N/A Power and utilities On-balance sheet financed - tCOe/GWh 589.9 509.6 537.5 511.1 (9)%  - % Facilitated (100% weighting) - tCOe/GWh 360.0 N/A 420.7 N/A 17% N/A 56 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Financed emissions continued Targets and progress We have set out in the table below our numbers for the relevant year to track Targets were set for oil and gas, and power combined on-balance sheet financed and progress to target. We set out the annual and utilities in February 2022, for thermal coal facilitated emissions targets for the oil and figures before the application of the three-year mining in December 2022, and for the other gas, and power and utilities sectors. These average in the facilitated emissions table sectors in February 2023. On the following show the revised baselines. on page 61. pages, we provide more granular details of our financed emissions within these sectors.
For facilitated emissions, we track progress We have also set out our defined targets for to target using a three-year average the on-balance sheet financed emissions of When assessing the changes from 2019 to moving window (average of 2020, 2021 the following sectors: cement; iron, steel and 2022, it is important to emphasise the longand 2022 for the 2022 progress number) aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal term commitment that is needed to meet and figures weighted at 33%. This means coal mining. We disclose emissions in 2021 our 2030 interim targets, and how changes that transactions facilitated in 2028 and and 2022 and progress achieved in 2022 to exposure and market fluctuations impact 2029 will still have an impact on the 2030 versus baseline for each sector. yearly updates. Movement from one year to progress number and will need to be taken the next may not reflect future trends for the into consideration as we manage progress We have implemented a revised approach financed emissions of our portfolio. In the towards our target. We aim to achieve our to calculate the sector-level intensity metric hard-to-abate sectors, where decarbonisation target in 2030 notwithstanding the application in 2023, which has been applied for the progress is expected to be slower, we are of a three-year average. recalculated power and utilities baseline taking steps to engage with clients on their metric, and for 2021 and 2022 actual data transition plans.
The facilitated emissions values total for all intensity-based sectors. Emissions 17.5 Mt COe in 2021 and 14.4 Mt COe intensity is a weighted average according to As we are at the beginning of our journey to 2 2 in 2022 for the oil and gas sector, the portfolio weight of each investment, as a track and measure progress, we believe it and 398.3 tCOe/GWh for 2021 and proportion of the total portfolio value. would be premature to infer future trends from 377.6 tCOe/GWh in 2022 for the power the 2019 to 2022 progress at this stage.
and utilities sector. These values are then The progress figures show the trend in combined with the on-balance sheet financed emissions before targets were set.
2022 % change vs.
Sector1 Baseline 2021 2022 baseline 2030 target Unit2 Target scenario Combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions at 33% with three-year moving average Oil and gas 42.6 in 2019 37.9 31.9 (25)% (34)% Mt COe IEA NZE 2021 Power and utilities 513.4 in 2019 405.1 396.8 (23)% 138.0 tCOe/GWh IEA NZE 2021 On-balance sheet financed emissions Cement 0.64 in 2019 0.70 0.71 10% 0.46 tCOe/t cement IEA NZE 2021 Iron, steel and aluminium 1.8 in 2019 2.4 2.5 38% 1.05 (1.43)3 tCOe/t metal IEA NZE 2021 Aviation 84.0 in 2019 85.9 86.5 3% 63.04 tCOe/million rpk IEA NZE 2021 Automotive 191.5 in 2019 215.7 216.6 13% 66.0 tCOe/million vkm IEA NZE 2021 Thermal coal mining 4.0 in 2020 N/A N/A N/A (70)%5 Mt COe IEA NZE 2021 1 Our absolute and intensity emission metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector. For oil and gas; and power and utilities, the baseline, 2021, 2022 and target type figures represent revised combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions. For iron, steel and aluminium; cement; aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining, the baseline, 2021, 2022 and target type figures represent on-balance sheet financed emissions (no revisions applied).
2 For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent ('Mt COe'); for the power and utilities sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour ('tCOe/GWh'); for the cement sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of cement ('tCOe/t cement'); for the iron, steel and aluminium sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of metal ('tCOe/t metal'); for the aviation sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million revenue passenger kilometres ('tCOe/ 2 2 million rpk'); for the automotive sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million vehicle kilometres ('tCOe/million vkm'); and for the thermal coal mining sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent ('Mt COe').
3 While the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership Technology Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses.
4 Our aviation unit includes passenger and cargo tonnes, converted into revenue passenger kilometre ('rpk'), to align with our target pathway. This is comparable to revenue tonne kilometre (rtk) using a 100kg per passenger conversion factor as we already include belly and dedicated cargo in our production figures. The conversion factor changed from 95kg per passenger in the previous disclosure to align with industry practice.
5 The thermal coal mining scope differs from the other sectors. We include solely emissions from thermal coal production and coal power generation, rather than the total emissions of a counterparty within a sector, to reflect the absolute financed emissions reduction thermal coal mining sector target.
Financed emissions continued Oil and gas Our core approach as we progress towards For the oil and gas sector, our analysis our portfolio decarbonisation targets is to included scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, engage with major oil and gas customers including carbon dioxide and methane, for to understand their transition plans and to upstream and integrated companies. We help support and accelerate those efforts.
revised our baseline for 2019 and progress This is in line with the Group's energy policy, 40 figures to reflect combined on-balance sheet which supports the phasing down of fossil financed and facilitated emissions and our fuel sources with the highest emission revised approach. intensity as well as financing restrictions for 30 projects relating to new oil and gas fields, 25 We have set a target to reduce absolute and infrastructure.
on-balance sheet financed emissions and 20 facilitated emissions for our oil and gas In 2022, absolute combined on-balance sheet 15 portfolio by 34% by 2030 relative to a 2019 financed and facilitated emissions decreased baseline. This is consistent with a global by 25% to 31.9 Mt COe relative to the 2019 10 1.5°C-aligned pathway as defined by the IEA baseline, and by 16% from 2021 to 2022. This 5 NZE 2021 scenario. This target is unchanged decline was achieved through a risk-weighted with the inclusion of facilitated emissions. assets reduction strategy and aided by market 20192020 2021 2022 2030 We plan to update our target following conditions, with stronger oil and gas cash flows the periodic release of new 1.5°C-aligned and higher interest rates resulting in reduced scenarios in the years ahead to reflect shifts in demand for bank debt and capital markets the real economy. financing. Market dynamics will continue to create volatility in future years as we make progress towards our financed emissions target.
Power and utilities Our target is consistent with a global For the power and utilities sector, our analysis 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA included scope 1 and 2 emissions for upstream NZE 2021 scenario. We plan to refresh our power generation companies. Although target following the periodic release of new scope 1 emissions are most material for the 1.5°C-aligned scenarios in the years ahead.
sector, most companies report scope 1 and 2 emissions together making it challenging to In 2022, our combined on-balance sheet split out the data. We revised our baseline for financed and facilitated emissions intensity 2019 and progress figures to reflect combined decreased by 23% to 396.8 tCOe/GWh 2 on-balance sheet financed and facilitated relative to the 2019 baseline. This reduction emissions and our revised approach. was driven by an increase in financing of renewable energy projects and companies, We have set a target to reduce the financed and a decrease in financing of high emissions emissions intensity of our on-balance sheet intensity clients. Over the period from 2022 and facilitated power and utilities portfolio to 2021 the fall in sector portfolio financed to 138 tCOe/GWh by 2030. This target is emissions was a more modest 2%.
unchanged with the inclusion of facilitated emissions. We have chosen an intensity- Over the reported period, the average based target as electricity demand is emissions intensity of clients for whom we expected to more than double by 2050 due helped raise funds in the capital markets to both population growth and electrification was lower than for clients financed directly required to decarbonise mobility, buildings, on our balance sheet. This means the and industry. We have focused on power combined on-balance sheet financed and generation companies because they control facilitated emissions intensity from 2019 to sector output. By engaging with them, we 2022 was lower than for on-balance sheet believe we can help drive the most material financing alone.
emissions impact in the real economy.
e2OC tM Oil and gas 2022 progress Mt CO2e from baseline (25)% 20192020 2021 2022 2030 hWG/e2OCt ESG review | Environmental We plan to report financed emissions and given this has a direct link to real economy We are developing portfolio modelling progress against our targets annually and to emissions. capabilities that integrate risk, profitability and be transparent in our disclosures about the financed emissions to inform decision making methodologies applied and any challenges or A number of clients have material undrawn and determine how to best steer our portfolios dependencies. However, financed emissions balances that, if drawn, could significantly to meet our financed emissions targets and figures may not be reconcilable or comparable increase the financed emissions related to commercial and strategic ambitions. As part of year on year in future, and baselines and those clients. We expect to assess how to this we are testing and developing an analytics targets may require recalibration as data, manage these exposures on a forward-looking capability that will provide an up-to-date view methodologies and reference scenarios basis as we progress towards our 2030 of our position relative to our 2030 targets develop. targets. In addition, for the intensity-based and an indication of the financed emissions sectors, the emissions intensity is sensitive impact of a transaction to consider alongside Consistent with PCAF guidance on financed to material clients and changes to drawn risk-return metrics.
emissions accounting, we only consider balances year on year can therefore influence the outstanding drawn financing amount the trend.
Power and utilities 2022 progress CO2e/GWh from baseline (23)% Key: HSBC sector target HSBC sector portfolio emissions Mission Possible Partnership ('MPP') pathway 58 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Financed emissions continued Cement Our 2022 emissions intensity was 10% higher For the cement sector, our analysis included than the 2019 baseline due to higher drawn scope 1 and 2 emissions for midstream balances for emissions intensive clients, but at companies with clinker and cement 0.71 tCOe/t cement in 2022, it was marginally 2 0.7 manufacturing facilities. up by 1% from 2021.
0.6 In line with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, Our cement portfolio is relatively concentrated we target an on-balance sheet financed in customer numbers, and even where 0.5 emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of carbon customers have set science-based targets dioxide equivalent per tonne of cement there is still a risk of pledges not turning 0.4 ('tCOe/t cement') by 2030, using 2019 as our into the necessary emissions reductions baseline. While some emissions reductions if technologies do not scale in time. It will 0.3 can be achieved through energy efficiency, be important, therefore, to regularly review we believe that to significantly reduce progress on technology scaling across the 0.2 fuel and process emissions from cement industry over the years ahead to 2030. For 0.1 manufacturing, and to meet our targets, cement and the other intensity-based sectors large-scale investments are required in new we plan to integrate net zero considerations technologies, including clinker substitution, into our transaction processes and controls 2019 2020 2021 2022 2030 alternative fuel use such as bioenergy, and and we expect this to help guide our activities carbon capture use and storage. towards progressive alignment of the portfolio with our 2030 targets.
tnemec t/e2OCt Cement 2022 progress CO2e/t cement from baseline 10% Iron, steel and aluminium Due to the challenges of decarbonising this We covered scope 1 and 2 for midstream hard-to-abate sector, we also outline an iron, steel and aluminium production in our alternative scenario from the Mission Possible analysis. Due to the low significance of the Partnership ('MPP').
2.5 aluminium sector's financed emissions within our portfolio, we combined them with our iron The emissions intensity in 2022 rose by 38% and steel financed emissions. In the event that to 2.5 tCOe/t metal against our 2019 baseline 2.0 aluminium becomes a more material part of and by 4% versus 2021. This was due to our portfolio in the future, we may consider increased financing to the aluminium sector, 1.5 creating a separate target for aluminium which has a higher carbon intensity than that production given the varied decarbonisation of steel.
pathway for this metal. 1.0 We aim to actively manage our portfolio to For the iron, steel and aluminium sector, we achieve our 2030 financed emissions target target an on-balance sheet financed emissions for our iron, steel and aluminium portfolio, 0.5 intensity of 1.05 tonnes of carbon dioxide taking into account the actions our customers equivalent per tonne of metal ('tCOe/t metal') are taking to achieve emissions reductions.
2 0 by 2030, using the IEA NZE 2021 scenario as 20192020 2021 2022 2030 our core scenario and 2019 as our baseline.
Aviation The industry is also adopting the unit of In the aviation sector, we included passenger revenue tonne kilometre ('rtk') to take into airlines' scope 1 and aircraft lessors' scope account the transport of cargo for airlines in 3 downstream emissions. We excluded scope of the target. We will consider this as military and dedicated cargo flights as the part of our methodology enhancement.
emissions intensity of such cargo flights is different to that of passenger airlines. This At 86.5 tCOe/million rpk in 2022, the approach is in line with industry practice to emissions intensity increased by 3% versus ensure consistency of financed emissions the 2019 baseline and was marginally up by measurement and target setting. 1% from 2021. In 2020 there was a peak in emissions intensity due to the impact of the Aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we Covid-19 pandemic, as planes carried fewer target an on-balance sheet financed emissions passengers.
intensity of 63.0 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million revenue passenger We plan to engage with our major customers kilometres ('tCOe/million rpk') by 2030, using on their transition plans, as well as integrate 2019 as our baseline. To reach these intensity financed emissions implications into levels and help meet our targets, we believe transaction and portfolio management for the sector needs significant policy support, the sector.
investments in alternative fuels, such as sustainable aviation fuel, and new aircraft to reduce emissions.
latem t/e2OCt Iron, steel and aluminium 2022 progress CO2e/t metal from baseline 38% 2019 2020 2021 2022 2030 kpr noillim/e2OCt Environmental Aviation 2022 progress CO2e/million rpk from baseline 3% Key: HSBC sector target HSBC sector portfolio emissions Mission Possible Partnership ('MPP') pathway Financed emissions continued Automotive aligned pathway, modified to match the share For the automotive sector, we looked at scope of new in-year vehicle sales for light-duty 1, 2 and 3 emissions from the midstream vehicles. Decarbonisation of the automotive manufacturing of vehicles, and tank-to-wheel sector, and therefore our ability to meet our exhaust pipe emissions for light-duty vehicles. targets, needs large-scale investments in new We excluded heavy-duty vehicles from our electric vehicle and battery manufacturing analysis as the target pathway derived from plants, widespread charging infrastructure, the IEA excludes them, as they have a different and government policies to support electric decarbonisation pathway relative to light-duty vehicles. 200 vehicles. This approach is in line with industry practice to ensure consistency of financed Our 2022 emissions intensity rose by 13% 150 emissions measurement and target setting. to 216.6 tCOe/million vkm against our 2019 We will consider including heavy-duty vehicle baseline and stayed level with 2021. This 100 manufacturers as well as heavy-duty vehicle increase, after an 8% reduction in 2020 production at a later stage of our analysis, as versus 2019, was caused by a shift in the 50 data and methodologies develop. portfolio towards companies producing more emissions-intensive vehicles. This can We target an on-balance sheet financed be the case for manufacturers that produce 20192020 2021 2022 2030 emissions intensity of 66.0 tonnes of carbon more sports utility vehicles or fewer electric dioxide equivalent per million vehicle vehicles.
kilometres ('tCOe/million vkm') by 2030 using 2019 as our baseline. This is in line with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, which is a 1.5C° mkv noillim/ e2OCt Automotive 2022 progress CO2e/million vkm from baseline 13% Thermal coal mining When calculating our financed emissions from For the thermal coal mining sector, our thermal coal mining, we focused on thermal analysis focused on scope 1, 2 and 3 coal extraction and processing companies, emissions in upstream companies, including and diversified mining companies. We aim to those involved in extraction. The majority measure and focus on our customers with the of our financed emissions relate to scope 3 most material thermal coal-related emissions emissions associated with coal mining. in order to help drive a meaningful impact in 8 the real economy.
We set an absolute on-balance sheet reduction target of 70% for 2030, from an 6 absolute 2020 baseline measure of 4.0 Mt CO 2 e. We used 2020 as a baseline to align 4 with the baseline used for our drawn balance exposure targets in the thermal coal phaseout policy. The financed emissions target is 2 aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario.
2019 2020 2030 e2OC tM ESG review | Environmental Thermal coal mining 2022 progress Mt CO2e from baseline N/A Key: HSBC sector target HSBC sector portfolio emissions Mission Possible Partnership ('MPP') pathway 60 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Financed emissions continued On-balance sheet financed emissions The table below summarises the results of our assessment of on-balance sheet financed emissions using 2021 and 2022 data. For thermal coal mining, disclosures commenced in 2020 to align with thermal coal exposure reporting metrics. The PCAF data quality score has not improved for 2022 due to limited availability of actual reported emissions from our customers.
On-balance sheet financed emissions - wholesale credit lending and project finance1,2 PCAF data quality score3,† Sector Year Scope 1-2 (Mt CO 2 e)† Scope 3 (Mt CO 2 e)† Emissions intensity4 Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3 2021 2.1 18.4 N/A 2.8 2.9 Oil and gas 2022 1.3 16.2 N/A 3.2 3.2 2021 8.1 N/A 407.0 2.9 N/A Power and utilities 2022 7.6 N/A 401.7 3.3 N/A 2021 2.2 N/A 0.70 2.8 N/A Cement 2022 4.5 N/A 0.71 2.9 N/A 2021 2.0 N/A 2.4 3.0 N/A Iron, steel and aluminium 2022 2.7 N/A 2.5 3.0 N/A 2021 2.7 0.16 85.9 3.0 3.3 Aviation 2022 2.6 0.15 86.5 3.3 2.4 2021 0.07 3.6 215.7 2.8 2.9 Automotive 2022 0.12 5.4 216.6 2.7 2.9 Thermal coal mining 2020 0.17 3.8 N/A 3.0 3.0 Facilitated emissions The table below summarises the results of our assessment of facilitated emissions from 2019 to 2022 for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors.
Applying a 100% weighting, the oil and gas values for scope 1 to 3 emissions decreased from 43.2 Mt COe in 2019 to 15.2 Mt COe in 2022. For 2 2 the power and utilities sector, the values for scope 1 and 2 emissions fell from 8.5 Mt COe in 2019 to 3.8 Mt COe in 2022. For all 100%-weighted 2 2 facilitated values, please refer to the ESG Data Pack. The total capital markets activity analysed applying a 100% weighting in 2019 was $22.6bn, representing 5.5% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2019. In 2020, it was $26.0bn, representing 6.2% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2020. In 2021, it was $18.1bn, representing 4.1% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2021. In 2022, it was $10.4bn representing 3.2% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2022.
Facilitated emissions - ECM, DCM and syndicated loans (33% weighting) PCAF data quality score3,† Sector Year5 Scope 1-2 (Mt CO 2 e)† Scope 3 (Mt CO 2 e)† Emissions intensity4 Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3 Oil and gas 2019 1.6 12.7 N/A 2.3 2.7 2020 2.7 24.0 N/A 2.0 2.1 2021 0.90 10.5 N/A 2.9 3.1 2022 0.36 4.7 N/A 3.3 3.3 Power and utilities 2019 2.8 N/A 420.7 2.5 N/A 2020 2.1 N/A 410.1 2.5 N/A 2021 1.5 N/A 364.1 2.9 N/A 2022 1.2 N/A 358.7 2.9 N/A 1 The total amount of short-term finance excluded for the thermal coal mining sector was $0.37bn in 2020; for all other sectors it was $7.0bn in 2021 and $8.5bn in 2022.
2 The total loans and advances analysed in 2020 for the thermal coal mining sector were $2.89bn, representing 0.28% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2020. For all other sectors in 2021, they were $24.1bn representing 2.3% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021 and in 2022, they were $23.6bn representing 2.6% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2022. The total loans and advances analysed for the purpose of the financed emissions calculation and reporting have not been adjusted for assets held for sale.
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based on financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 Emissions intensity under the new aggregation method.
5 Due to timing differences the approach for calculating 2021-2022 facilitated emissions has been enhanced compared to that of 2019-2020. Enhancements are mainly data and process-related for the later years to include more consistent and higher quality data sources and are therefore applied prospectively in line with our recalculation policy. Small methodology changes were applied as well but these do not materially change our 2019-2020 numbers.
† Data is subject to independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology and PWC's limited assurance report, which are available at ESG review | Environmental Financed emissions continued Integrating net zero into transaction and portfolio decision making In 2023, we began to embed net zero factors Once completed, these assessments can alongside standard risk-return and other be used to support business decisions in considerations when evaluating specific relation to our financed emissions portfolio transactions starting with oil and gas, power management and alignment, and our climate and utilities, and thermal coal mining sectors. risk management efforts.
We have been testing and developing an Our processes and controls will continue to analytics capability that, where relevant, evolve as we look at net zero considerations begins to provide front-line business teams for sectors, customers and deals with higher Reducing landfill waste and management with insight on the up-to- climate impact and risk. These considerations and emissions in date on-balance sheet financed emissions and include: adherence with our sustainability risk facilitated emissions position of a sector, the policies; climate-related credit risk; customer the Philippines impact of a transaction where material, and transition plan assessment outcomes (where implications relative to pathways in line with relevant); reputational risk considerations; and We are supporting a company that our 2030 targets. financed and, where applicable, facilitated is seeking to tackle the problem of emissions implications (where transactions are overflowing landfills, which will help We continued our efforts to design and in scope of our financed emissions disclosures reduce methane emissions and create implement a differentiated approach to and 2030 targets). We have dedicated potential new jobs in the Philippines.
understand and assess the transition plans governance, with escalation pathways for and risks of our corporate customers, deals deemed high risk, including in terms In June 2023, we provided a subsidiary including state-owned enterprises. These of financed emissions implications and of Prime Infrastructure Capital, a assessments help us to identify opportunities, reputation risk.
sustainable infrastructure firm with manage climate risks and define areas to drive services that span energy, water strategic engagement with each corporate distribution and waste management, customer.
with a $24.5m green loan. The loan was provided to finance its acquisition In 2023, we completed assessments for most and expansion of a waste management customers in scope of our thermal coal phasefacility in Cebu, Philippines.
out policy. We also completed assessments for customers that make the most material The company has increased the facility's contribution to our financed emissions in the capacity to treat and recycle domestic oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors.
and industrial solid waste, and is developing its capabilities to convert organic and agricultural feedstock waste into sustainable, refuse-derived fuel.
The funding is expected to help to divert waste away from landfill, which will reduce methane emissions generated by decomposing organic waste.
Reducing emissions in our assets under management In July 2021, our asset management amounted to $193.9bn at 31 December the creation of a Sustainable Investment business, HSBC Asset Management, 2019. We use 2019 as the baseline year for Solutions Lab. HSBC Asset Management signed up to the Net Zero Asset Managers our calculations. Implementation of the net reported an update through the Principles initiative, which encourages investment zero targets remains subject to consultation for Responsible Investment annual firms to commit to managing assets in with stakeholders including investors, fund submission, as required under its Net line with achieving net zero emissions by boards and regulators. Zero Asset Managers commitment. As 2050 or sooner. HSBC Asset Management part of its thermal coal policy, it fulfilled a continues to work towards its ambition of In 2023, HSBC Asset Management commitment to initiate engagement with reducing scope 1 and 2 financed emissions worked to develop solutions for clients to all listed issuers held in active fundamental intensity by 58% by 2030 for 38% of its total address climate ambitions while investing. portfolios with more than 10% revenue assets under management. These listed Further data science expertise will be exposure to thermal coal.
equity and corporate fixed income assets added to support sustainability through 62 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Embedding net zero into the way we operate Net zero in our own operations TCFD Part of our ambition to be a net zero bank is closely managing the gradual resumption of Focus on natural resources to achieve net zero carbon emissions in our travel through internal reporting and review Alongside our net zero operations ambition, operations and supply chain by 2030. of emissions, internal carbon budgets and our aim is to be a responsible consumer the introduction of emissions information at of natural resources. Through design, Reduce, replace and remove the point of booking. With hybrid working construction and operational standards, We have three elements to our strategy: embedded across the organisation, the use we strive to ensure that, wherever possible, reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first of virtual working practices has reduced the our premises do not adversely affect the focus on reducing carbon emissions from need for our colleagues to travel to meet with environment or natural resources. We have consumption, and then replacing remaining other colleagues and customers. identified specific focus areas including emissions with low-carbon alternatives in line waste, paper and sustainable diets, and with the Paris Agreement. We continue to focus on reducing the are exploring key opportunities to reduce environmental impact from the vehicles we our wider environmental impact over the We plan to remove the remaining emissions use in our global markets, and accelerate the coming decade.
that cannot be reduced or replaced by use of electric vehicles. In 2023, we reduced procuring, in accordance with prevailing the company car fleet size by 9% compared Our presence in environmentally regulatory requirements, high-quality offsets with 2022. We are now aiming to ensure that sensitive areas at a later stage. We are working on our carbon all new vehicles ordered are fully electric or As a global organisation, our branches, credits strategy by engaging with a range of hybrid vehicles where possible. offices and data centres may be located in market participants. areas of high or very high water stress and/ Engaging with our supply chain or protected areas of biodiversity, as we Our energy consumption Our supply chain is critical to achieving our net support our customers and communities in In October 2020, we announced our ambition zero ambitions, and we are partnering with our these locations.
to reduce our energy consumption by 50% suppliers on this journey. Since 2020, we have by 2030, against a 2019 baseline, and in 2023 been encouraging our largest suppliers to Approximately 55% of our global offices, we achieved 26.3%. We continue to work make their own carbon commitments, and to branches and data centres are located in to do this by optimising the use of our real disclose their emissions via the CDP (formerly areas identified as being subject to high and estate portfolio, and carrying out a strategic the Carbon Disclosure Project) supply chain very high water stress, accounting for 50% reduction in our office space and data programme. In 2023, suppliers representing of our annual water consumption. These are centres. We are using new technology and 70.6% of total supplier spend completed the predominantly urban or city centre locations emerging products to make our spaces more CDP questionnaire, compared with 63.5% with large, concentrated populations. Our energy efficient. in 2022. industry is a low user of potable water, and we have implemented measures to further reduce As part of our ambition to achieve 100% We will continue to engage with our supply water consumption through the installation renewable electricity across our operations by chain through CDP, and through direct of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or zero 2030, we continue to look for opportunities discussions with our suppliers on how they flush sanitary fittings.
to procure green electricity in each of our can further support our transition to net zero.
markets. In 2023, our fourth UK renewable In addition, 0.9% of our global office, branch power purchase agreement ('PPA') went live in In 2023, we launched our supplier net zero and data centre portfolio lies in protected Sorbie, Scotland. A key challenge remains the guides, providing further details to support areas of biodiversity. We strive through limited opportunity to pursue PPAs or green suppliers in understanding our net zero our design, construction and operational tariffs in key markets due to regulations. ambitions, as set out in our supplier code standards to ensure that, where possible, of conduct. We are developing internal our premises do not adversely affect Business travel decarbonisation plans for the highest-emitting the environment or natural resources in Our ambition is to halve travel emissions by procurement categories (IT hardware, real these areas.
2030, compared with pre-pandemic levels. In estate, data centre and servers, and telecom 2023, our travel emissions remained below services), to be included in category strategies 50% of our 2019 baseline, despite the lifting and to support future supplier selection.
of international travel restrictions. We are Our environmental and sustainability management policies Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary across geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported by Corporate Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management, seeking to ensure that HSBC's properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on the environment. Detailed design considerations documented in our Global Engineering Standards aim to reduce or avoid depletion of critical resources, such as energy, water, land and raw materials. Suppliers are required to adhere to strict environmental management principles and reduce their impact on the environment in which they operate.
ESG review | Environmental Net zero in our own operations continued Emissions from our energy and travel Energy and travel greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes COe We report our emissions following the 2 Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which incorporates 2023 2022 baseline the scope 2 market-based emissions methodology. We report greenhouse gas Scope 11 16,918 19,329 22,066 emissions resulting from the energy used in Scope 2 (market-based)1 167,174 223,334 392,270 our buildings and employees' business travel.
Due to the nature of our primary business, Scope 3 1,090,280 1,052,264 1,139,260 carbon dioxide is the main type of greenhouse Category 1: Purchased goods and services1,2 859,256 865,747 829,635 gas applicable to our operations. While the amount is immaterial, our current reporting Category 2: Capital goods1,2 121,783 144,232 37,617 also incorporates methane and nitrous oxide Category 6: Business travel1 109,241 42,285 272,008 for completeness. Our environmental data for our own operations is based on a 12-month Total 1,274,372 1,294,927 1,553,596 period to 30 September. Included energy UK 5,909 9,264 10,432 In 2023, we reduced emissions from our 1 O ur data is now presented on an absolute value basis and not rounded values. Data in 2023 is subject to an energy consumption and travel to 293,333 independent limited assurance by PwC in accordance with International Standard on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting tonnes COe, which represents a 57.3% 2 Guidance 2023 and third-party limited assurance report at reduction compared with our 2019 baseline.
esg-reporting-and-policies. In respect of data in 2019 and 2022, see our relevant Annual Report and Accounts.
This was mainly attributed to: 2 Supply chain emissions calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry averages.
A data quality score is applied to this calculation where 1 is high and 5 is low, based on the quality of
- travel volumes remaining low compared emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC supplier spend and is in line with HSBC's with pre-pandemic levels; financed emissions reporting methodology. Data quality scores can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
- an increase in our consumption of For further details of our methodologies, our PwC limited assurance reports and relevant environment key facts, see our ESG Data Pack at renewable electricity to 58.4%; and
- the reduction of energy consumption as a result of strategic footprint reductions Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes Energy consumption in kWh in 000s and the implementation of over 450 energy COe per FTE conservation measures, which amounted 2 2019 2019 to an estimated energy avoidance in 2023 2022 baseline 2023 2022 baseline excess of 12 million kWh.
Scope 1, 2 and Total 772,736 797,264 913,556 3 (Category 6) 1.3 1.3 2.9 Emissions from business travel increased UK only 209,939 222,322 281,271 compared with 2022, due to the easing of Scope 1, 2 and pandemic-related travel restrictions which 3 (Category 1, resulted in a return to travel. A decrease in 2 and 6) 5.8 5.9 6.6 scope 1 emissions was partly attributed to a correction in the classification of road-based business travel in the UK and India from scope 1 to scope 3.
average carbon intensities and spend data averages remain significantly elevated. Due to determine their contribution to our supply to volatility in industry average data, we In 2023, we collected data on energy use chain emissions. As more of our suppliers will undertake a review of our data sources and business travel for our operations in 34 report their emissions, we should be able to and methodology during 2024. As supplier countries and territories, which accounted include more accurate data and fewer industry emissions reporting matures, we will be able for approximately 96.0% of our full-time averages in the calculation. We have applied to include more actual data and fewer industry employees ('FTEs'). To estimate the emissions a data quality score to the sources of data we averages in the methodology. Our initial supply of our operations in entities where we have used to determine counterparty emissions. For chain emission figures may require updating operational control and a small presence, we further details, see our GHG (Greenhouse Gas) as data availability changes over time and scale up the emissions data from 96.0% to Reporting Guidance at  methodologies and climate science evolve.
100%. We then apply emission uplift rates to reflect uncertainty concerning the quality In 2022, we disclosed our supply chain For further details of our methodologies and and coverage of emission measurement and emissions for the first time, using supplier relevant environmental key facts, see the ESG estimation. This is consistent with both the Data Pack at emissions data and industry averages where Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's actual data was not available. This approach Good Practice Guidance and Uncertainty is heavily dependent on external data Management in National Greenhouse Gas sources to calculate estimates of our supply Inventories and our internal analysis of data chain emissions.
coverage and quality.
In 2023, emissions from our supply chain Emissions from our supply chain reduced by 3% compared with 2022. This is Our calculation methodology uses supplier due to a reduction in spend and an increase emissions data where we have it from in the availability of actual emissions data suppliers, through CDP. Where we do not from our suppliers. Emissions have increased have actual emissions data, we use industry by 13% compared with 2019, as industry 64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Managing climate risk TCFD Climate risk relates to the financial and non- Our material exposure to climate risk relates In the table below, we set out our duties to our financial impacts that may arise as a result of to wholesale and retail client financing activity stakeholders in our four most material roles.
climate change and the move to a net zero within our banking portfolio. We are also economy. We manage climate risk across all exposed to climate risk in relation to asset For further details of our approach to climate risk, our businesses and are incorporating climate ownership by our insurance business and see 'ESG risk' on page 141 and 'Climate risk' on page 221.
considerations within our traditional risk employee pension plans. Our clients are types in line with our Group-wide risk exposed to climate-related investment risk in management framework. our asset management business.
Banking Employee pensions Asset management Insurance We manage the climate risk in our Our pension plans manage climate Climate risk management is a We consider climate risk in our banking portfolios through our risk risk in line with their fiduciary key feature of our investment portfolio of assets.
appetite and policies for financial duties towards members and local decision making and portfolio and non-financial risks. regulatory requirements. management approach.
Climate risk This helps enable us to identify We monitor climate risk exposure We also engage with We have established an evolving opportunities to support our internally for our largest plans companies on topics related to ESG programme to meet changing customers, while continuing to based on asset sector allocation climate change. external expectations and meet stakeholder expectations. and carbon emissions data customer demands.
where available.
Customers Employees Customers Investors EmpCluosyteoemseCrsommCuunsittoiemsersInvEemsptolorsyeR geo esv g e u r lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays nede CsomImnvuensittoierSssuppliICenruvsestsotComurR gessoretsov gmCe u rolen amrt msomr e s nu t ans nitdie sCEommpmloEuymneitpeSielsuoR gspyo epev gleie uesr lrn ast m or eCs nu t ass ntR g doom e v gIene urrvlsn aet msoItnr eos nvr set a ssntSdou rpsplierEsmplCoSuyCuseopteompsmlmiCeeruorssnmitmiCeuusnsittoiemsersInveEsmR gtoo eprv glsoe uyr lR gn aeo etem o v gsr ee us nr l En a t at smm noCdrpeus nlso t atysonemde CseorsmmInuSvnueiptsipteolSsireusrpspliIenErvmsepstlooyrR gseo eev gse uCr l n aot mmor ems nC t auus nnsditto iemsCeorsmInmveusntiotSireusspR gpo eliv gee ursr lEn atmm orpe s nlo t ays R g neo deev g Cse uor lmn at mmor eus nn t aistniedSs uppliIenrvsestoSrR gusope v gpe ulirel n art msor e s n t a s nd CommunitSieusppliers R go e v g e u r l n at m or e s n t a s nd Suppliers Banking faced by companies are considered when and 2022 through its annual TCFD Report, Our banking business is well positioned making investment decisions and to assess will continue to report against the 2030 to support our customers managing their ESG risks and opportunities that could impact targets and aims to widen the coverage of its own climate risk through financing. For our investment performance. assessment and reporting over time. In 2023, wholesale customers, we use our transition its asset managers were formally notified of engagement questionnaire to understand HSBC Asset Management engages with the Trustee's ESG risk mitigation priorities and clients' climate strategies and risks. We investee companies on a priority list as defined encouraged to develop commensurate risk have set out a suite of policies to guide our in its Global Stewardship Plan, and votes at mitigation strategies. The manager monitoring management of climate risk. We continue company general meetings, including on the and selection processes now explicitly to develop our climate risk appetite and topic of climate change. It also works with include assessment of these strategies where metrics to help manage climate exposures in collaborative engagement initiatives such as financially material.
our wholesale and retail portfolios. We also Climate Action 100+ and Nature Action 100.
develop and use climate scenario analysis For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK) to gain insights on the long-term effects For further details of the HSBC Global Asset Pension Scheme's annual TCFD statements and of transition and physical risks across our Management (UK) Limited's annual TCFD climate action plan, see Report, see  hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/information-centre/ wholesale and retail banking portfolios (for hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/attachments/uk/ other-information.
further details, see page 225). common/tcfd-report-2022.pdf.
Insurance Asset management Employee pensions In 2023, our Insurance business updated its HSBC Asset Management recognises that The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension sustainability procedures to align with the climate risk may manifest as transition and Scheme, our largest plan with $36bn assets Group's updated energy and thermal coalphysical risks over the short, medium and under management, aims to achieve net zero phase out policies. We also delivered ESG long term. The impact of climate-related risk greenhouse gas emissions across its defined product marketing guidelines with insurance will vary depending on characteristics such benefit and defined contribution assets by examples and training.
as asset class, sector, business model and 2050. To help achieve this, it is targeting an geography. Where applicable and relevant, interim emissions reduction of 50% by 2030, In response to various ESG regulatory HSBC Asset Management incorporates from 2019 levels, for its equity and corporate initiatives and developments, HSBC's climate-related indicators, such as carbon bond mandates. This commitment was made insurance manufacturing entities in the EU, intensity and management of carbon in the context of wider efforts to manage the which are in Malta and France, have continued emissions, into investment decisions as well as impact of climate change on the Scheme's to implement key disclosure-related regulatory insights from its climate-related engagement. investments and the consequent impact on requirements, including pre-contractual the financial interests of members. reporting, client periodic reporting and Work continues on the integration of ESG sustainable investment impact statements.
and climate analysis into HSBC Asset The Scheme, which has reported emission Related requirements for the UK are expected Management's actively managed product reductions for its listed equity and corporate to be introduced in 2024.
offerings to help ensure the climate risks bond mandate portfolios between 2019 ESG review | Environmental Sustainability risk policies TCFD Our sustainability risk policies help to set We regularly review our policies, incorporating Biodiversity and natural out our appetite for financing and advisory feedback and building on experience from capital-related policies activities in certain sectors. Our policies are policy implementation over time. Our sustainability risk policies impose important mechanisms for delivering our restrictions on certain financing activities net zero ambitions, as well as for managing Where we identify activities that could that may have material negative impacts on sustainability risks. cause material negative impacts, we expect nature. While a number of our sustainability customers to demonstrate that they are risk policies have such restrictions, our Our policies identifying and mitigating risks responsibly, forestry and agricultural commodities policies Our sustainability risk policies comprise and we will look to take required actions as focus specifically on a key nature-related our core net zero-aligned policies - thermal outlined in our policies, which may include impact: deforestation. These policies require coal phase-out and energy - and our applying financing restrictions or enhanced customers involved with major deforestationbroader sustainability risk policies covering: due diligence. risk commodities to operate in accordance agricultural commodities, chemicals, forestry, with sustainable business principles. We mining and metals, and World Heritage Sites For further details of how we manage also require palm oil customers to obtain and Ramsar-designated wetlands. We also sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, certification under the Roundtable on see  the Equator Principles when financing Sustainable Palm Oil, and commit to 'No responsibility/sustainability-risk.
relevant projects. Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation' (see 'Our respect for human rights' on Governance and implementation Our sustainability risk policies focus on page 89).
Our Group Risk and Compliance function mitigating the negative impacts of specific has specialists who review and support sectors on people and the environment. Our energy policy implementation of our sustainability risk Our net zero policies, including energy and Our energy policy covers the broader energy policies. Our relationship managers are the thermal coal phase-out, also support our system, including upstream oil and gas, fossil primary point of contact for many of our ambition to transition to net zero. Engaging fuel power generation, hydrogen, renewables business customers and are responsible with customers on their transition plans is a and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and wastefor managing customers' adherence to key aspect of our net zero policy approach. to-energy sectors.
the sustainability risk policies. They are These policies aim to provide clear signals supported by sustainability risk managers to our customers on how our appetite and The policy seeks to balance three objectives: across the Group who have local or regional expectations for different activities are driving down global greenhouse gas responsibility for advising on, and overseeing, changing, as well as how we will consider emissions; enabling an orderly transition the management of risks as outlined in the their plans for the future. that builds resilience in the long term; and policies. Where considered appropriate, policy supporting a just and affordable transition, matters are escalated to relevant internal We continue to review policy implementation recognising the local realities in all the governance committees.
as we apply our policies in practice, and our communities we serve.
operationalisation of such policies continues Oversight of the development and to be enhanced. We take a risk-based The energy policy was first published in implementation of policies is the responsibility approach when identifying transactions and December 2022 and updated in January 2024.
of relevant governance committees comprising clients to which our energy and thermal coal We review the policy annually to help ensure senior members of the Group Risk and phase-out policies apply, and when reporting that it remains aligned with our net zero by Compliance function and global businesses.
on relevant exposures, adopting approaches 2050 ambition and strategic objectives.
proportionate to risk and materiality. This helps to focus our efforts on areas where we For further details of our oil and gas, and power believe we can help drive meaningful change, and utilities financed emissions targets, see the 'Targets and progress' section in 'Financed while taking into account experience from emissions on page 57.
policy implementation over time.
For further details of our energy policy, see

66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Sustainability risk policies continued Our thermal coal phase-out policy In our Annual Report and Accounts 2022 we Considering materiality criteria helps us to As set out in the thermal coal phase-out acknowledged that our processes, systems, focus our efforts on areas where we believe policy, we are committed to phasing out the controls and governance were not yet designed we can help drive meaningful change, while financing of thermal coal-fired power and to fully identify and disclose thermal coal taking into account experience from policy thermal coal mining in EU and OECD markets exposures and that we planned to reassess the implementation over time.
by 2030, and globally by 2040. reliability of our data and review our basis of preparation to help ensure that we are reporting Applying our revised basis of preparation, Our policy aims to support thermal coal all relevant thermal coal exposures aligned to our thermal coal financing drawn balance phase-out aligned to science-based our thermal coal phase-out policy. exposure was approximately $1bn† as at timeframes, recognising the different pace 31 December 2020. We continue to work on between advanced and emerging economies. We have now revised the basis of preparation our 2021 and 2022 numbers based on our In turn our policy supports progress towards for our thermal coal exposures. Aligned with revised basis of preparation and expect to our financed emissions targets for the power our thermal coal phase-out policy, we applied report on these in future disclosures.
and utilities and thermal coal mining sectors. a risk-based approach to identify clients and report on relevant exposures. This includes For further details of our approach to financed The policy was first published in December the use of globally recognised third-party emissions, see 'Our Approach to financed emissions' on page 53.
2021 and is reviewed annually, with the most data sources to screen clients and applies † Data is subject to independent limited assurance recent update in January 2024, to help ensure materiality considerations to product type, by PwC in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE 3410.
that it remains aligned with our commitments customer type and exposure type, which For further details, see our Financed Emissions and takes into consideration relevant changes informs inclusion and exclusion requirements. and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology and in external factors. PwC's limited assurance report, which are Specifically, for product types, short-term available at For our thermal coal phase-out policy, see www. lending exposures are excluded from our esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
hsbc.com/-/files/hsbc/our-approach/risk-and- thermal coal financing exposures reporting in responsibility/pdfs/240125-hsbc-thermal-coalline with our financed emissions methodology.
phase-out-policy.pdf.
For customer types, exclusions are applied for For further details of our thermal coal phase-out certain customer types such as sovereigns policy January 2024 update, see page 71 of our Net Zero Transition Plan 2024, which is available and individuals. For exposure types, a at  threshold of $15m for drawn balances is strategy/our-net-zero-transition-plan. applied for thermal coal financing exposures reporting. For the avoidance of doubt, the Thermal coal financing exposures $15m threshold applies only to exposure We intend to reduce thermal coal financing reporting analysis and does not apply to drawn balance exposure from a 2020 baseline the application of the thermal coal by at least 25% by 2025 and aim to reduce it phase-out policy.
by 50% by 2030.
For further details of our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology, see

Asset Management policy HSBC Asset Management published its own transition away from thermal coal could face under the Group energy policy. HSBC Asset policy on thermal coal in September 2022, voting sanctions and ultimately a divestment Management's policy work will continue to and its own energy policy in November of holdings. support the Group's sustainability objectives
2023. As an asset manager, it is subject to and the commitment made under the Net separate regulatory and legal obligations to Under its energy policy, HSBC Asset Zero Asset Managers initiative to support deliver customers' investment interests and Management will engage with - and investing aligned with net zero by 2050.
deliver fair outcomes. assess the transition plans of - oil and gas, We continue on the journey of policy and power and utilities companies held in implementation, including engaging with Under its thermal coal policy, HSBC Asset its portfolios. For its active fundamental the companies in which we invest, and Management will not hold listed securities sustainable named funds, it will exclude improving the data we rely on to monitor of issuers with more than de minimis listed issuers whose overall operations are the policies.
revenue exposure to thermal coal in its substantially in unconventional oil and gas, actively managed funds beyond 2030 for EU subject to data availability, and with the level For further details of the energy policy, see and OECD markets, and globally by 2040. and scope of exclusions to be set out in fund attachments/common/energy-policy-en.pdf.
The policy also includes enhanced due prospectuses. In its alternatives business, it For further details of the thermal coal policy, diligence on the transition plans of investee will not undertake new direct investments see companies with thermal coal exposure. in projects associated with the energymedia/files/attachments/common/coal-policyCompanies held in investment portfolios related activities identified as excluded en.pdf.
that do not develop credible plans to from new finance or advisory services ESG review | Environmental Partnering for systemic change Supporting systemic change to deliver net zero We recognise that collective action is critical to develop guidance for financial institutions Working with civil society and to achieve net zero. We seek to collaborate on financing the managed phase-out of non-governmental organisations with a range of partners to develop a coal-fired power plants in Asia-Pacific. As part of our global philanthropy, we have supportive environment for achieving net zero - As Chair of the Sustainable Markets partnered with a range of organisations to and mobilising finance for climate action and Initiative's ('SMI') Financial Services support the acceleration of climate action and nature-based solutions. Our partnerships vary Taskforce, we have been actively involved in investments in nature.
in scope and form depending on the sector the publication of industry guidance to help and geography, as well as our presence in encourage investment in critical ecosystems Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership local markets. We act independently and and sustainable agricultural practices. initiative with the World Resources Institute, voluntarily in our decision making, based on These include sponsorship of a report by WWF and over 50 local partners, continues to our own business interests, priorities and Pollination on financing coastal nature- support the scaling up of nature-based solutions objectives, and in accordance with the laws based solutions, as well as contributing and the transition of the energy sector in Asia.
and regulations of the markets in which we to the Mangrove Breakthrough initiative's This includes engaging with local enterprises operate. financial roadmap and the SMI Agribusiness across Asia to make climate commitments Task Force's blended finance framework for and take corporate action. Under the Asia Working with the public sector regenerative farming. Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, we are We engage with governments and public working closely with smallholders and traders
- As a member of the Taskforce on Naturebodies to support the implementation of to transition to more sustainable practices and related Financial Disclosures ('TNFD'), we policies and regulations, including promoting reduce nature-related losses.
have piloted the TNFD beta framework good practice to develop globally consistent to better understand our exposure to approaches to nature and climate-related We have also established several new nature-related risks, including on subsets financial regulation. In 2023, this included: partnerships focused on transitioning industry, of customers. We are currently focused decarbonising global trade and catalysing the on assessing and preparing for mandatory
- working with the UK Net Zero Council, a new economy. These include: nature-related disclosure requirements, cross-government business partnership, to and we continue to engage with TNFD and help address market barriers to delivering - a three-year partnership with the Apparel explore ways it can help us and our clients net zero, including high start-up costs for Impact Institute to mobilise blended finance to strengthen nature-related reporting.
renewable energy projects, regulatory for projects to reduce supply chain emissions challenges and uncertainty around policy in the global fashion industry; In 2023, we also supported financial product frameworks; and development to help mobilise the allocation - a founding membership of the Capacity-
- continuing to engage with Just Energy of capital towards halting and reversing building Alliance for Sustainable Investment, Transition Partnerships contributing to nature loss: a global platform providing local capacity Indonesia's comprehensive investment building services and technical assistance and policy plan and Vietnam's resource - We worked with the ICMA to help develop to support growth of transition financing mobilisation plan, which provide roadmaps global guidance for issuers launching in emerging markets and developing for minimising the negative impact on local blue bonds - debt instruments that raise economies; and communities of phasing out fossil fuels and capital to finance sustainable marine and - a two-year partnership with Repower, how banks can support the transition. ocean-based projects - including eligibility a global non-profit initiative analysing criteria, standards for evaluating the impact the technical and commercial feasibility Working with industry of projects, and the steps needed to build of various options for repowering and We participate in cross-industry alliances and the integrity of the blue economy and repurposing coal-fired power plants to initiatives to stimulate industry engagement in mobilise investment. accelerate the transition to clean energy.
nature and climate-related issues, and improve
- We partnered with Earth Security to explore consistency in global financial standards, the barriers, opportunities and design options guidance and frameworks to accelerate for creating a 'mangrove bond' in Queensland, implementation. In 2023, these included: Australia to help generate funding to enhance mangrove ecosystems. This led to
- We are supporting the widespread adoption the publication of a practical blueprint for of the GFANZ net zero transition plan investors, banks, corporates and governments framework, as a member of its Principals to develop new sustainable fixed income and Group. We also jointly led a working group investment product opportunities.
Unlocking the potential of Chinese ecosystems We have been working with the SEE Foundation in China on a multi-stakeholder pilot project to enhance the climate resilience and biodiversity of forests, inland wetlands, and mangroves in several selected local provinces. The project aims to restore and promote sustainable management of key ecosystems and improve ecosystem services such as carbon sinks, as a model for other areas in China and around the world. Its efforts to reduce emissions, and generate jobs through the support of sustainable local enterprises, has also unlocked government and public funding for expansion and gained recognition from the World Bank and the Chinese government.
68 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Our approach to climate reporting TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') The table below sets out the 11 TCFD recommendations and summarises where additional information can be found.
We have considered our 'comply or explain' obligation under both the UK's Financial Conduct Authority's Listing Rules and Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006, and confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures, including its annexes and supplemental guidance, save for certain items, which we summarise below and in the additional information section on page 440.
Disclosure Recommendation Response location Governance a) Describe the Board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a)) Process, frequency - The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the Pages 88 and training approach, execution and associated reporting. It considered ESG at eight meetings during the year. and 256
- Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, and seek out further opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area.
Sub-committee accountability, - The Group Audit Committee ('GAC') considered ESG and climate reporting matters at eight meetings during Page 267 processes and frequency 2023. Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided close oversight of the disclosure risks in relation to ESG and climate reporting, amid rising stakeholder expectations.
- The Group Risk Committee ('GRC') received reports on climate risk management, energy and thermal coal Pages 275 phase-out policies, while maintaining oversight of delivery plans to ensure that the Group develops robust and 278 climate risk management capabilities. It considered ESG risk at five meetings in 2023.
- The diagram on page 88 provides an illustration of our ESG governance process, including how the Board's strategy on climate is cascaded and implemented throughout the organisation. It identifies examples of forums that manage both climate-related opportunities and risks, along with their responsibilities and the responsible chair.
Examples of the Board and - The Board considered whether to establish a Board committee dedicated to ESG issues, but instead decided Page 254 relevant Board committees that the best way to support the oversight and delivery of the Group's climate ambition and ESG strategy was taking climate into account to retain governance at Board level.
- In 2023, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and Page 254 detailed updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan, deep dives on the sustainability execution programme, reviews of net zero-aligned policies and climate-aligned financing initiatives.
b) Describe management's role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a)) Who manages climate-related - The ESG Committee supports the development and delivery of our ESG strategy, key policies and material Page 222 risks and opportunities commitments by providing oversight, coordination and management of ESG commitments and initiatives. It is co-chaired by the Group Chief Sustainability Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
- In 2023, we enhanced our ESG governance with the establishment of a new Sustainability Execution Page 88 Committee, which focuses on defining and measuring the success of our climate ambition, and developing commercial opportunities that support it through the sustainability execution programme.
- The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager responsible for the management of Page 222 climate risk under the UK Senior Managers Regime, which involves holding overall accountability for the Group's climate risk programme.
How management reports to - The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy to the Page 250 the Board Group Chief Executive. The Group Chief Executive is supported in his management of the Group by recommendations and advice from the Group Executive Committee, an executive forum comprising members of senior management that include chief executive officers of the global businesses, regional chief executive officers and functional heads.
- The Group Executive Committee further enhanced its governance model of ESG matters with the Page 254 introduction of a new Sustainability Execution Committee and supporting forums. These support senior management in the operationalisation of the Group's sustainability strategy, through the oversight of the sustainability execution programme.
Processes used to - The Group Risk Management Meeting oversees the enterprise-wide management of all risks, including Page 88 inform management updates relating to the Group's climate risk profile and risk appetite, top and emerging climate risks, and key climate initiatives.
- The Environmental Risk Oversight Forum oversees global risk activities relating to environmental risk Page 88 management, including the transition and physical risks from climate change. Equivalent forums have been established at regional level, where appropriate.
ESG review | Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (d)) Processes used to - To support the requirements for assessing the impacts of climate change, we continue to develop a set Page 37 determine material risks of capabilities to execute climate stress testing and scenario analysis. These are used to improve our and opportunities understanding of our risk exposures for risk management and business decision making.
- We also develop and use climate scenario analysis to gain insights on the long-term effects of transition and Page 65 physical risks across our wholesale and retail banking portfolios.
- Our sustainable finance and investment ambition aims to help promote green, sustainable and sociallyPage 50 focused business and sustainable investment products and solutions.
Relevant short-, medium-, and - We have continued to take steps to implement our climate ambition to become net zero in our operations and Page 42 long-term time horizons our supply chain by 2030, and align our financed emissions to net zero by 2050.
- In 2023, we continued to provide sustainable financing and investment to our customers in line with our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn by 2030.
- Our assessment of climate risks covers three distinct time periods, comprising: short term, which is up to 2025; medium term, which is between 2026 and 2035; and long term, which is between 2036 and 2050. Page 141 These time periods are aligned to the Climate Action 100+ framework v1.2.
Transition or physical - We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating Page 50 climate-related between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Our sustainable finance data issues identified dictionary includes a detailed definition of contributing activities.
- For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2023, the overall exposure to six high transition Page 223 risk sectors was $112bn. Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers through a transition engagement questionnaire (formerly the transition and physical risk questionnaire) to gather information and assess the alignment of our wholesale customers' business models to net zero and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the responses to the questionnaire to create a climate risk score for our key wholesale customers.
- We measure the impacts of climate and weather events to our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and scenario modelled forecast data. In 2023, there were 27 major storms that had a minor impact on five premises with no impact on the availability of our buildings.
Risks and opportunities by - For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending Page 223 sector and/or geography portfolio to six high transition risk sectors. These are automotive, chemicals, construction and building materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities.
- Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened physical risk are identified Page 224 and assessed locally, and potential exposure is monitored through quarterly metrics. We have also set risk appetite metrics for physical risk in our largest mortgage markets, the UK and Hong Kong, as well as those with local regulatory requirements, including Singapore.
- We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating Page 50 between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For a detailed breakdown of our sustainable finance progress, see the ESG Data Pack.
Concentrations of credit - We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the wholesale portfolio. For details, see the Page 223 exposure to carbon-related ESG Data Pack.
assets (supplemental guidance - The UK is our largest mortgage market, which at September 2023 made up 40.0% of our global mortgage for banks) portfolio. We estimate that 0.2% of our UK retail mortgage portfolio is at very high risk of flooding and 3.5% is Page 224 at high risk. This is based on approximately 94.2% climate risk data coverage by value of our UK portfolio as at September 2023.
Climate-related risks (transition - Our material exposure to climate risk relates to wholesale and retail client financing activity within our banking Page 65 and physical) in lending and portfolio.
other financial intermediary - We are also exposed to climate risk in relation to asset ownership by our insurance business and employee business activities pension plans. Page 65 (supplemental guidance for banks) - HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate risk may manifest as transition and physical risks over the short, medium and long term. The impact of climate-related risk will vary depending on characteristics Page 65 such as asset class, sector, business model and geography. Where applicable and relevant, HSBC Asset Management incorporates climate-related indicators, such as carbon intensity and management of carbon emissions, into investment decisions as well as insights from its climate-related engagement.
- In climate scenario analysis on page 227, we show the relative size of exposures at default in 2023 and the increase in cumulative ECL under each scenario compared with a counterfactual scenario by 2035 (expressed as a multiple).
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation's businesses, strategy and financial planning (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (e)) Impact on strategy, business, - Our net zero ambition represents one of our four strategic pillars. We aim to achieve net zero in our financed Page 44 and financial planning emissions by 2050, and in our own operations and supply chain by 2030.
- Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range of climate scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet Page 225 our growing regulatory requirements. Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario analysis techniques will help us shape our approach further. We therefore expect this view to change over time.
- We continue to enhance our climate scenario analysis exercises so that we can have a more comprehensive Page 225 understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities to support our strategic planning and actions.
- We have used climate scenarios to inform our organisation's business, strategy and financial planning. In 2023, we continued to incorporate certain aspects of sustainable finance and financed emissions within our Page 222 financial planning process.
- We do not fully disclose impacts from climate-related opportunities on financial planning and performance including on revenue, costs and the balance sheet, quantitative scenario analysis, detailed climate risk exposures for all sectors and geographies or physical risk metrics. This is due to transitional challenges in Page 440 relation to data limitations, although nascent work is ongoing in these areas. We expect these data limitations to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and technology solutions are implemented.
Impact on products - We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating Page 50 and services between $750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
Impact on supply chain - We will continue to engage with our supply chain through CDP, and through direct discussions with our Page 63 and/or value chain suppliers on how they can further support our transition to net zero.
- We recognise that collective action is critical to achieve net zero. We seek to collaborate with a range of partners to develop a supportive environment for achieving net zero and mobilising finance for climate action and nature-based solutions. Our partnerships vary in scope and form depending on the sector and geography, as well as our presence in local markets.
- HSBC Asset Management engages with investee companies on a priority list as defined in its Global Stewardship Plan, and votes at company general meetings, including on the topic of climate change.
Impact on adaptation and - In October 2020, we announced our ambition to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by 2030, against a Page 63 mitigation activities 2019 baseline. As part of our ambition to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our operations by 2030, we continue to look for opportunities to procure green electricity in each of our markets. In 2023, our fourth UK renewable PPA went live in Sorbie, Scotland. A key challenge remains the limited opportunity to pursue PPAs or green tariffs in key markets due to regulations.
- We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and global engineering standards and will Page 229 continue to assess historical claims data to help ensure our building selection and design standards address the potential impacts of climate change.
Impact on operations - We have three elements to our strategy: reduce, replace and remove. We plan to first focus on reducing Page 63 carbon emissions from consumption, and then replacing remaining emissions with low-carbon alternatives in line with the Paris Agreement. We plan to remove the remaining emissions that cannot be reduced or replaced by procuring, in accordance with prevailing regulatory requirements, high-quality offsets at a later stage.
- We use stress testing to evaluate the potential for impact on our owned or leased premises. Our scenario Page 229 stress test, conducted in 2023, analysed how eight climate change-related hazards could impact 1,000 of our critical and important buildings. These hazards were coastal inundation, extreme heat, extreme winds, wildfires, riverine flooding, pluvial flooding, soil movement due to drought, and surface water flooding.
Impact on investment in - Throughout 2023, we published regular ESG and sustainability-related market insights and updates such Page 51 research and development as #WhyESGMatters and Learning about ESG to help clients better understand the implications for their investments.
- We recognise the need to find new solutions and increase the pace of change for the world to achieve the Page 52 Paris Agreement goal of being net zero by 2050. We are working with a range of partners to accelerate investment in sustainable infrastructure, natural resources and climate technology to help reduce emissions and address climate change.
Impact on acquisitions - We have updated our merger and acquisition process to consider potential climate and sustainability-related Page 222 or divestments targets, net zero transition plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to HSBC.
Impact on access to capital - We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy and financial planning. Page 440 Our access to capital may be impacted by reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In addition, if we are perceived to mislead stakeholders on our business activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we could face reputational damage, impacting our revenue-generating ability and potentially our access to capital markets. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available. To manage these risks we have integrated climate risk into our existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk management framework through the policies and controls for the existing risks where appropriate.
Transition plan to a - We published our Group-wide net zero transition plan in January 2024. In this plan, we provided an overview Page 440 low-carbon economy of our approach to net zero and the actions we are taking to help meet our ambitions. We want to be clear about our approach, the change underway today and what we plan to do in the future. We also want to be transparent about where there are still unresolved issues and uncertainties. We are still developing our disclosures, including considerations of possible additional data in relation to our financial plans, budgets, and related financial approach for the implementation of the transition plan in the medium term (e.g. amount of capital and other expenditures supporting our decarbonisation strategy). The UK Transition Plan Taskforce published its final transition plan disclosure framework in October 2023. We will continue to evolve our transition plan disclosures to take into account new and evolving regulatory developments.
ESG review | Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location c) Describe the resilience of the organisation's strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (f)) Embedding climate into - Scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under Page 225 scenario analysis a range of climate scenarios. It helps to build our awareness of climate change, plan for the future and meet our growing regulatory requirements.
- In our 2023 climate scenario analysis exercises, we explored five scenarios that were created to examine the Page 225 potential impacts from climate change for the Group and its entities.
Key drivers of performance - Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential climate pathways may affect and impact Page 227 and how these have been the resilience of our customers and our portfolios, particularly in respect of credit losses. Under the Current taken into account Commitments scenario, we expect lower levels of losses relating to transition risks, although we would expect an increase in the effects of climate-related physical risks over the longer term.
- Scenario analysis results have been used to support the Group's ICAAP. This is an internal assessment of Page 229 the capital the Group needs to hold to meet the risks identified on a current and projected basis, including climate risk.
- In addition, scenario analysis informs our risk appetite statement metrics. As an example, it supports the Page 229 calibration of physical risk metrics for our retail mortgage portfolios and it is used to consider climate impact in our IFRS 9 assessment.
Scenarios used and - Our scenarios are: the Net Zero scenario, the Current Commitments scenario, the Delayed Transition Risk Page 225 how they factored in scenario, the Downside Physical Risk scenario and the Near Term scenario.
government policies - Our scenarios reflect different levels of physical and transition risks over a variety of time periods. The scenario assumptions include varying levels of governmental climate policy changes, macroeconomic factors Page 225 and technological developments. However, these scenarios rely on the development of technologies that are still unproven, such as global hydrogen production to decarbonise aviation and shipping.
How our strategies may - The nature of the scenarios, our developing capabilities, and limitations of the analysis lead to outcomes that Page 225 change and adapt are indicative of climate change headwinds, although they are not a direct forecast.
- Developments in climate science, data, methodology and scenario analysis techniques will help us shape our approach further. We therefore expect this view to change over time.
- Climate scenario analysis plays a crucial role helping us to identify and understand the impact of climaterelated risks and potential opportunities as we navigate the transition to net zero. Page 229
- Our target-setting approach to date, for on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions, has been to utilise a single net zero reference scenario (IEA NZE 2021) to underpin both energy supply-related sectors (oil and gas, power and utilities, and thermal coal mining) and our published targets for demand-side Page 53 sectors in transport and heavy industry.
- We recognise that the so-called 'hard-to-abate' sectors, such as cement, iron, steel and aluminium, and aviation have a large dependence on nascent technologies and the presence (or not) of enabling policies and Page 48 regulations. We may consider tracking progress relative to 1.5°C-aligned ambition ranges for these sectors in the future, which could include industry-specific scenarios alongside the IEA NZE scenario.
- We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due to transitional challenges including data limitations and evolving science and methodologies. In 2023, we have disclosed the impairment impacts for our wholesale, retail and commercial real estate portfolios in different climate scenarios. In addition, we have disclosed losses on our retail mortgage book under three scenarios and Page 440 flood depths for specific markets. For our wholesale book, we have disclosed potential implications on our expected credit losses for 11 sectors under two scenarios. We have also disclosed a heat map showing how we expect the risks to evolve over time.
Risk management a) Describe the organisation's processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b)) Process - We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our organisation, Page 222 and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over time.
- We updated our climate risk management approach to incorporate net zero alignment risk and developed guidance on how climate risk should be managed for non-financial risk types. While we have made progress in enhancing our climate risk framework, further work remains. This includes the need to develop additional metrics and tools to measure our exposure to climate-related risks, and to incorporate these tools within decision making.
- In 2023, we enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis exercise by focusing our efforts on generating more granular insights for key sectors and regions to support core decision-making processes, and to respond to our Page 225 regulatory requirements. In climate scenario analysis, we consider, jointly, both physical risks and transition risks.
- We continue to review policy implementation as we apply our policies in practice, and our operationalisation of such policies continues to be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach when identifying transactions and clients to which our energy and thermal coal phase-out policies apply, and when reporting on relevant exposures, adopting approaches proportionate to risk and materiality.
Integration into policies - We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our Page 222 and procedures organisation, and we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over time.
Consider climate-related risks - We provide further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk Page 223 in traditional banking industry types, including wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, treasury risk, traded risk, reputational risk, regulatory risk categories (supplementary compliance risk, resilience risk, model risk, and financial reporting risk.
guidance for banks) 72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location b) Describe the organisation's processes for managing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b)) Process and how we - The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive regular updates on our climate Page 222 make decisions risk profile and progress of our climate risk programme.
- The Environmental Risk Oversight Forum (formerly the Climate Risk Oversight Forum) oversees risk activities relating to climate and sustainability risk management, including the transition and physical risks from climate Page 222 change. Equivalent forums have been established at a regional level.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation's overall risk management framework (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (c)) How we have aligned and - Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of Page 221 integrated our approach defence model, which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks.
- We are developing our climate risk capabilities across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, portfolios and counterparties with the highest impacts.
- In 2023, we updated our climate risk materiality assessment, to understand how climate risk may impact across HSBC's risk taxonomy. Page 221
- In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis. Page 221 How we take into account - Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of Page 221 interconnections between defence model, which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks.
entities and functions - Through our climate risk programme, we continued to embed climate considerations throughout the organisation, including through risk policy updates and the completion of our annual climate risk materiality Page 139 assessment. We also developed risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis.
- We continue to make progress in enhancing our climate risk capabilities, and recognise it is a long-term Page 221 iterative process. This includes updating our approach to reflect how the risks associated with climate change continue to evolve in the real world, and maturing how we embed climate risk factors into strategic planning, transactions and decision making across our businesses.
Metrics and targets a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h)) Metrics used to assess the - We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six Page 223 impact of climate-related risks high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2023, the overall exposure to six high transition risk sectors on our loan portfolio was $112bn.
- The UK is our largest mortgage market, which at September 2023 made up 40.0% of our global mortgage Page 224 portfolio. We estimate that 0.2% of our UK retail mortgage portfolio is at very high risk of flooding, and 3.5% is at high risk. This is based on approximately 94.2% climate risk data coverage by value of our UK portfolio as at September 2023.
- In 2023, we further developed our risk metrics to monitor our performance against our net zero targets for Page 222 both financed emissions and own operations.
Metrics used to assess - We continue to track our progress against our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable P age 18 progress against opportunities finance and investment by 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary. For a detailed breakdown of our sustainable finance progress, see the ESG Data Pack.
- We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or other Page 440 business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, including revenue from products and services designed for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our business or strategic planning time horizons. In relation to sustainable finance revenue and assets we are disclosing certain elements. We expect the data and system limitations related to financial planning and performance, and climate-related opportunities metrics to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and technology solutions are implemented. We expect to further enhance this disclosure in the medium term.
Board or senior - To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a number of measures are included in the annual incentive and long- Page 16 management incentives term incentive scorecards of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Executives.
Internal carbon price - We do not currently disclose internal carbon prices due to transitional challenges such as data challenges. Page 440 But we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance this disclosure in the medium term.
Metrics used to assess the - As part of our 2023 internal climate scenario analysis, we completed a detailed climate risk assessment for Page 228 impact of climate risk on the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China and Australia, which together represent 75% of the balances in our lending and financial global retail mortgage portfolio. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal losses to intermediary business materialise when considering the Current Commitments scenario.
(supplemental guidance - In insights from climate scenario analysis on page 227, we showed the relative size of exposures at default in for banks) 2023 and the increase in cumulative ECL under each scenario compared with a counterfactual scenario by Page 227 2035 (expressed as a multiple).
- We do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical (chronic) and transitions (policy and legal, technology and market) risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business activities (specifically credit exposure, equity and debt holdings, or Page 440 trading positions, each broken down by industry, geography, credit quality and average tenor). We are aiming to develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to provide these disclosures in future years. We disclose the exposure to six high transition risk wholesale sectors and the flood risk exposure and Energy Performance Certificate breakdown for the UK portfolio.
ESG review | Environmental Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ('TCFD') continued Disclosure Recommendation Response location b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h)) Our own operations - We report greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the energy used in our buildings and employees' Page 64 business travel. In 2023, we also continue to disclose our scope 3 (category 1 and category 2) supply chain emissions. Our initial supply chain emission figures may require updating as data availability changes over time and methodologies and climate science evolve.
Greenhouse gas emissions - Our analysis of financed emissions comprises 'on-balance sheet financed emissions' and 'facilitated Page 53 for lending and financial emissions'. Our on-balance sheet financed emissions include emissions related to on-balance sheet lending, intermediary business such as project finance and direct lending. Our facilitated emissions include emissions related to financing we (supplemental guidance help clients to raise through capital markets activities.
for banks) - Work continues on the integration of ESG and climate analysis into HSBC Asset Management's actively Page 65 managed product offerings to help ensure the climate risks faced by companies are considered when making investment decisions and to assess ESG risks and opportunities that could impact investment performance.
- We currently disclose four out of 15 categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions including business Page 440 travel, supply chain and financed emissions. In relation to financed emissions, we publish on-balance sheet financed emissions for a number of sectors as detailed on page 18. We also publish facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and power and utilities sectors. Future disclosures on financed emissions and related risks are reliant on our customers publicly disclosing their greenhouse gas emissions, targets and plans, and related risks. We recognise the need to provide early transparency on climate disclosures but balance this with the recognition that existing data and reporting processes require significant enhancements.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (g)) Details of targets set and - We continue to track our progress against our ambition to provide and facilitate $750bn to $1tn of sustainable Page 18 whether they are absolute or finance and investment by 2030, aligned to our published data dictionary.
intensity based - We have continued to take steps to implement our climate ambition to become net zero in our operations and our supply chain by 2030, and align our financed emissions to net zero by 2050.
- For financed emissions we do not plan to set 2025 targets. We set targets in line with the Net-Zero Banking Alliance ('NZBA') guidelines by setting 2030 targets. While the NZBA defines 2030 as intermediate, we use Page 17 different time horizons for climate risk management. For climate, we define short term as time periods up to 2025; medium term is between 2026 and 2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. These time periods align to the Climate Action 100+ disclosure framework. In 2023, we disclosed interim 2030 targets for financed emissions for a number of sectors as we outline on page 18.
- We do not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to capital deployment, since 2015, we have issued more than $2bn of our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital invested into a variety of green projects, including: green buildings, renewable energy and clean transportation projects. In 2023, we further progressed our internal review and enhancement of the green bond framework, with further refinement including internal and external review to be undertaken in 2024. This will be subject to continuous review and monitoring to ensure that they remain up to date and reflect updated standards, taxonomies and best practices. Any such developments in standards, taxonomies and best practices over time could result in revisions in our reporting going forward and lead to differences year-on-year as compared to prior years. See the HSBC Green Bond Report for further information.
- We do not currently disclose internal carbon pricing target due to transitional challenges such as developing Page 440 the appropriate systems and processes, but we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available.
- We do not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk. This is due to transitional challenges including data limitations of physical risk metrics. For retail, we do not use targets to measure and Page 440 manage physical risk. In 2023 we introduced internally a global 'soft trigger' monitoring and review process for physical risk exposure where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures markets are actively considering their balance sheet risk exposure to peril events. We also consider physical and transition risk as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance our disclosures as our data, quantitative scenario analysis, risk metrics and physical risk targets evolve, and technology solutions are implemented in the medium term.
- We have described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not consider water usage to be a material target for our business and, therefore, we have not included a target in this year's disclosure.
Other key performance - In October 2020, we announced our ambition to reduce our energy consumption by 50% by 2030, against a 2019 Page 63 indicators used baseline, and in 2023 we achieved 26.3%.
- As part of our ambition to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our operations by 2030, we continue to look for opportunities to procure green electricity in each of our markets. In 2023, our fourth UK renewable PPA went live in Sorbie, Scotland.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Social Social Building inclusion and resilience We play an active role in opening up a world of opportunity for our customers, colleagues and communities by connecting across our international networks to help build a more inclusive and resilient society.
At a glance Inclusion is key to opening up a world of making with women in senior leadership roles We build resilience by creating products and opportunity. It involves a commitment to has not been as fast paced as we would like. services that simplify the banking experience, identifying and addressing barriers that may so customers can manage and grow their stop people from accessing opportunities Employee well-being is essential. We offer wealth more easily. We also help protect because of who they are or where they all colleagues a wide range of resources what people value most - their health, are from. that help support their mental, physical and families, homes and belongings. We also financial well-being so they can thrive in and build resilience by providing education so Inclusion goes hand in hand with resilience. out of work. We are working to ensure that customers can understand how to manage We aim to help people build the capabilities our offices, branches and digital spaces are their finances more effectively.
they need to achieve their goals and to deal accessible and safe for all.
with the challenges they face, so we are Communities focused on delivering products, services We also help our colleagues build resilience We are developing an updated global and education that support our colleagues, by ensuring that they are equipped with the philanthropy strategy that allows us to work customers and communities. skills and knowledge they need to progress alongside the communities we operate within, their careers during a period of significant and which aligns with our ESG areas of focus Colleagues economic transformation. - 'transition to net zero' and 'building inclusion We believe that an inclusive, healthy and and resilience'.
rewarding workplace helps the whole Group Customers succeed. We are focused on recruiting and We are committed to helping our customers We believe that fostering inclusion and retaining diverse talent by offering fair pay access the financial services they need. They building resilience helps us to create long-term and career progression so we can ensure our should not find it more difficult to access value and growth. By removing unnecessary colleagues - and particularly our leadership finance because of their gender, their ethnicity, barriers and striving to be a fair and equitable
- are representative of the communities we their sexual orientation, their neurodiversity organisation, we can attract and retain the serve. We do this by setting meaningful goals or their disability. Our ambition is to create a best talent, support a wider customer base and tracking and monitoring our progress. In welcoming, inclusive and accessible banking to achieve their goals and stimulate growth in 2023, we continued to make progress against experience for all our customers. our communities. This is how we open up a all of our goals, although the progress we are world of opportunity for our colleagues, our customers and our communities.
In this section Promoting diversity Our approach to diversity We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive Page 76 and fostering and inclusion environment that reflects our customers and communities.
inclusion Creating a diverse Page 77 environment Fostering an Page 78 inclusive culture Building a healthy Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group Page 79 workplace Executive Committee and the Board.
Being a great place to work We aim to create a great workplace that will help in attracting, Page 81 retaining and motivating our colleagues so they can deliver for our customers across countries and territories.
Developing skills, Learning and skills We aim to build a dynamic, inclusive culture where colleagues can Page 83 careers and development develop skills and experiences that help them fulfil their potential.
opportunities Energising our colleagues We are committed to offering colleagues the chance to develop Page 84 for growth their skills while building pipelines of talented colleagues to support the achievement of our strategic priorities.
Building customer Our approach to customer We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers Page 85 inclusion and inclusion and resilience people can face in accessing financial services.
resilience Engaging with our Building a more We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a Page 86 communities inclusive and resilient world difference to the community and support sustainable growth.
ESG review | Social Promoting diversity and fostering inclusion Our approach to diversity and inclusion Our purpose, 'Opening up a world of perspectives, we can more accurately reflect Group-wide priorities for which we hold senior opportunity', explains why we exist as an the societies we serve, creating better executives accountable. Some executives organisation, and is the foundation of our outcomes for customers and colleagues. also have local priorities, which ensures diversity and inclusion strategy. Inclusion is an our diversity and inclusion agenda remains enabler for our 'energise' strategic pillar, and Our data-driven strategy enables us to set locally relevant.
is embedded in the values of our organisation. aspirational goals to track and monitor our By valuing difference and seeking different progress. We remain focused on specific How we hold ourselves to account We set meaningful goals We report and track progress We benchmark our performance Our executive Directors and Group Measuring our performance ensures we External disclosures and benchmarks allow Executives are accountable for progressing consistently and accurately monitor the progress us to measure the progress that we are our agenda through a series of diversity and made against our aspirational goals. Our data- making and identify opportunities for future inclusion aspirational goals that align to three backed approach tracks this through: prioritisation. In 2023, we: public commitments that we have made. In 2023, we continued to make progress against - an inclusion dashboard, which monitors - scored 87.2% in the Bloomberg our three goals by: progress against goals with trend data on Gender-Equality Index measuring our hiring, promotion and exit ratios, is reported gender-related data, transparency
- achieving a 34.1% representation of to the Group Executive Committee on a and performance; women in senior leadership roles, with quarterly basis; and - maintained our Stonewall Gold standard a goal of achieving 35% by 2025; - semi-annual review meetings where our and rank as a top global LGBTQ+ inclusion
- attaining a 3.0% representation of Black Head of Inclusion meets each Group employer; and heritage colleagues in senior leadership Executive to review data, their progress - ranked as a Top 75 employer in the UK in the UK and US combined, against a against their aspirational goals, and to Social Mobility Index in our first year of goal to achieve 3.4% by 2025; and support further progress. entering a submission.
- increasing our Inclusion index as measured in our Snapshot survey, to 78% against a 2023 target of 75%.
A data-driven approach to inclusion We are evolving our data-driven approach by enabling more of our colleagues to self-identify across a range of data points. This data has enabled us to set locally relevant priorities and identify areas of our organisation where we need to focus our attention. We invite colleagues to self-identify on a broad range of data points where we can, although given the international nature of our business, there are some jurisdictions where we are unable to invite colleagues to share their diversity data with us. We have enabled 91% of our colleagues to disclose their ethnic background, with 62% of colleagues choosing to do so, where this is legally permissible.
Our approach goes beyond ethnic heritage and considers broader representation within the workplace. We have enabled 90% of the workforce to share whether they have a disability, 71% of our workforce to share their sexual orientation, and all UK-based colleagues to share their socio-economic background.
Our approach to Asian heritage representation Our roots as an organisation trace back over 150 years to Hong Kong, where HSBC opened its doors to serve clients with international needs. Asia remains a strategic focus for us today.
To better reflect the communities we serve, we have a focus on increasing representation across our global workforce, including Asian heritage representation. Defining Asian heritage can be complex due to the vast range of ethnicities and identities across the region. In 2023, 37.8% of our senior leaders were able to self-identify as being from an Asian heritage background. To deliver our international strategy it is vital that we are both representative of our local communities, and able to mobilise leaders with global perspective and diverse heritage backgrounds across our international network.
76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Social Creating a diverse environment Women in senior leadership Black colleagues in senior leadership The programme encourages participants to Since achieving our ambition of having 30% We remain on track to double the number of support each other with the tools and shared of senior leadership positions held by women Black colleagues in senior leadership roles experiences to structure their careers, expand in 2020, we set a new goal to reach 35% by globally by 2025, having increased the number their network and seek job opportunities. It
2025. We remain on track, with 34.1% of of Black senior leaders by 62% since 2020. also helps to create improved visibility of talent senior leadership roles held by women at the to senior leadership.
end of 2023, excluding our Canada business, In 2022, we set a new Group-wide ethnicity which is planned for sale in 2024. Progress in strategy, which is overseen by a senior G Ge e n n d d e e r r d d i i v v e e r r s s i i t t y y d s a ta ta tistics the past year has not been as fast paced as working group and led by our Group Chief we would like. A total of 37.7% of all external Risk and Compliance Officer. The aim of Holdings 53% appointments into senior positions were the strategy is to ensure we accurately Board 47% female, compared with 35.7% in 2022, and reflect the communities we serve and the women represented 39.6% of all promotions societies in which we operate. We continue Group 79% into senior leadership roles in 2023. to identify challenges colleagues from Executives 21% diverse backgrounds face in achieving their Development programmes, including our aspirations at HSBC. Combined 66% Accelerating Female Leaders initiative, have Group Executives and 34% helped to increase the visibility, sponsorship We have continued to focus on the direct reports1 and network of our high performing, senior development of Black heritage colleagues women. Since the start of the programme in through the delivery of dedicated development Subsidiary 65% 2017, 24% of participants have been promoted programmes. Using data analytics, we have directors2 35% and 2% have taken a lateral move to develop identified that in the UK, Black heritage female their careers. We have also retained over 79% colleagues are less likely to hold positions Senior 66% of colleagues who completed the programme. as people managers. To address this, we leadership3 34% introduced the Solaris programme to provide In our 2023 Accelerating into Leadership coaching and development for our UK-based Middle 62% programme, which prepares high potential, Black heritage female colleagues. Forty management3 38% mid-level colleagues for leadership roles, 43% women have successfully completed the of participants were women. More than 5,200 programme and 29% have been promoted. 51% Junior women also participated in our Coaching management3 49% Circles programme, which matches senior We also partnered with Vivida, a virtual leaders with a small group of colleagues reality firm, to launch an immersive learning 48% to provide advice and support on the programme designed to bring to life the All employees development of leadership skills and network experiences of Black heritage and ethnic 52% building. minority colleagues, highlighting the Male Female pressures, barriers and biases faced by these Our succession planning for key leadership communities. The programme has been 1 Combined Group Executives and direct reports roles includes an assessment of the diversity completed by 11,900 colleagues, and was includes HSBC Group Executives and their direct of our succession plans. We are improving nominated for awards at the 2023 European reports (excluding administrative staff) as of 31 the gender diversity of those roles critical to Diversity Awards and as finalists at The 2024 December 2023.
our organisation and the successors to those Learning Awards. 2 Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies roles. In 2023, 40% of the succession pool for that are included in the Group's consolidated these roles were women, compared with 36% In 2023 EmpowHER was launched, a financial statements, excluding corporate directors.
in 2022. programme created by Black heritage 3 In our leadership structure, we classify senior leadership as those at career band 3 and above; women for Black heritage women at midmiddle management as those at global career management levels across the UK business. band 4; and junior management as those at global career bands 5 and 6.
Representation and pay gaps approximately 80% of our workforce are committed to paying colleagues fairly We publish this data annually to ensure (excluding our Canada business held for regardless of their gender or ethnicity and both transparency and a maintained focus sale. In 2023, our mean aggregate UK-wide have processes to ensure that remuneration on addressing representation gaps within gender pay gap was 43.2%, compared is free from bias. We review our pay practices the organisation. Our gender and ethnicity with 45.2% in 2022, and the ethnicity pay and undertake a pay equity review annually, pay gap reporting shows the difference in gap was 4.5%, compared with 0.4% in including a regular independent third-party average pay between two groups of people 2022. Our UK gender pay gap is driven by review of equal pay in major markets. If (regardless of roles or seniority). We have several factors including the shape of our pay differences are identified that are not reported our UK gender representation and workforce, where there are more men than due to objective, tangible reasons such as pay gap data since 2017 in line with reporting women in senior higher-paid roles, and more performance, skills or experience, we make regulations, and have voluntarily extended women than men in junior roles. While we adjustments.
this to include the US, mainland China, Hong are confident in our approach to pay equity, Kong, India, Mexico, Singapore and the UAE, until women and ethnic minority colleagues For further details on our representation data, alongside ethnicity data for the UK and US. are proportionately represented across all pay gap data, and actions, see diversitycommitments and the ESG Data Pack In 2023, we also included gender pay gap areas and levels of the organisation we will at data for Argentina and Malaysia, covering continue to see gaps in average pay. We ESG review | Social Fostering an inclusive culture Our inclusion strategy seeks to make HSBC Each of our non-executive Directors and most the UK Business Disability Forum's roundtable an organisation in which every colleague can Group Executives are aligned with one of our and conference. We have enhanced the feel like they belong, and are empowered global ERGs, ensuring there is a direct link support we provide to colleagues through our to contribute their perspectives and ideas. between senior leadership and our colleagues. workplace adjustment programme partnering Our strategy sits above a range of diversity The non-executive Director dedicated to with Microlink, extending the availability of and inclusion strands from gender, ethnicity workforce engagement is closely aligned to this service to almost 37,790 colleagues in our and faith to disability and socio-economic our diversity and inclusion strategy and has global service centres and technology centres background - we want to ensure that attended events such as our 2023 Global in India.
all colleagues are able to realise their ERG Summit.
full potential. UK socio-economic diversity In 2023, our ERGs led numerous initiatives We believe that no-one should be limited We use the Inclusion index in our annual and events, including the Ability network by their socio-economic background and Snapshot survey to measure the extent hosting a global summit aimed at driving are committed to driving socio-economic to which our colleagues feel a sense of cultural change to build confidence for inclusion within our workforce.
belonging and psychological safety within colleagues with a disability. Our Nurture the organisation, alongside their perception ERG, which supports working parents and In 2022, we began exploring the impact socioof fairness and trust. In 2023, we achieved carers, launched the #LeaveLoudly Campaign economic background has on our colleagues, a score of 78%, which is three percentage globally. Its aim is to drive engagement by working with them, and internal and external points ahead of our annual aspirational goal, counteracting 'presenteeism', acknowledging stakeholders to develop our understanding on and two percentage points ahead of the that everyone has multifaceted lives, and to socio-economic diversity.
financial services industry benchmark. show that leaders across HSBC support a healthy work-life balance. In 2023, we entered the Social Mobility Index Analysis of our Inclusion index allows us for the first time and gained recognition as a to measure engagement levels of specific Looking to the future on disability top 75 employer. Our Strive ERG, sponsored colleague groups in greater detail, in Enhancing the experience of our employees, by the Group Chief Human Resources Officer, particular different diversity strands, to better particularly those with disabilities, is a vital now has over 1,000 members. We have understand the experiences of our colleagues part of our commitment to build an inclusive continued to be an active member of Progress globally. We found that scores from organisation. A key initiative has been a Together, focused on helping members colleagues who identify as male and female targeted career development programme to progress and retain a socio-economically were broadly in line with the overall Group- empower colleagues with confidence to drive diverse workforce, including taking part in wide result, at 79% and 77% respectively. their careers forward. the largest financial services study of socioFrom an ethnicity perspective, our Black economic diversity.
heritage colleagues were four percentage Recognising the pivotal role of line managers, points below the Group-wide average, while we have introduced a learning plan through We launched a career development our Asian heritage colleagues' results were on our Degreed platform to help managers programme through the Strive ERG, enabling a par with the overall score, at 78%. support team members with physical, colleagues from different backgrounds to lead sensory, long-term, and mental health with impact and build career confidence.
Our employee resource groups conditions, as well as those who identify as Our employee resource groups ('ERGs') neurodiverse. Our Ability ERG has hosted We continue to improve the socio-economic foster an inclusive culture and contribute support sessions globally, where colleagues diversity data we collect by running significantly to the experience of tens of shared their experiences and raised campaigns encouraging our colleagues and thousands of colleagues. They operate awareness for disability inclusion, and the job applicants to share their socio-economic globally and are led by colleagues with a support provided by HSBC. background. In 2023, we extended our range of shared values, identities, interests socio-economic focus to Asia, with an initial and goals, including disability, LGBTQ+, In collaboration with PurpleSpace, the data collection pilot in Singapore through ethnicity, faith and gender. disability network and professional our employee engagement survey. We also development hub, we sponsored and launched a new learning plan, available for all published a Leadership Model resource for employees to better understand what socioemployee groups. In 2023, we also sponsored economic diversity is and why it matters.
Supporting colleagues experiencing menopause Many of our female colleagues will experience menopause symptoms during their career. We do not want menopause to be a silent struggle and we have put in place the right support so it does not need to be. In 2023, we launched a new global framework centred around three principles of: creating awareness; removing barriers; and being adaptable. These form the basis of our menopause toolkit, which is available to all colleagues, and includes guidance on how to access menopause support and guidance for line managers on how to best support those in need.
We recognise that there is much more we can do to support those who are experiencing menopause and those who are supporting others experiencing it. Senior sponsorship is helping to raise awareness and our first step is to provide access to dedicated resources on menopause.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Social Building a healthy workplace Listening to our colleagues Listening to our colleagues is an essential Employee conduct and harassment We are committed to addressing this type part of building a healthy workplace at HSBC. We expect all our employees to treat each of behaviour and will continue to take action We capture employee feedback in a variety other with respect and dignity, and we do not where we find that an employee has breached of ways to understand how our colleagues tolerate or condone harassment or bullying our values and high standards of conduct.
feel about HSBC and to help us improve the in any form. We continually strive to improve employee experience. awareness and education around such Employee engagement: behaviours, and strengthen our understanding How we listen and response to these issues across all levels 77% Our annual Snapshot survey runs every of the organisation. In 2023, our overall September and gives all HSBC employees Snapshot Speak up index improved slightly to the opportunity to share their experiences of 76%, up one percentage point from 2022. Employee engagement score working at the organisation. Our 2023 survey (2022: 74%) achieved a record response rate of 85%, We encourage our colleagues to speak up from 78% in 2022, with nearly 180,000 up about poor behaviour or things that 81% colleagues choosing to share their views. do not seem right, and we have included bullying, harassment, discrimination and The results of Snapshot are discussed at all retaliation in our 2023 Global Mandatory Of colleagues who feel confident levels. Our record participation has enabled Training curriculum. Our Snapshot survey about this company's future us to put more data directly in the hands of revealed an increase in colleagues able to (2022: 77%) our people managers, with more than 11,000 state their opinion without fear of negative teams able to access their results, while consequences, with 72% of colleagues feeling 85% maintaining the confidentiality of individual able to do so, up from 70% in 2022.
employees' responses. Managers are supported by a guided action planning tool to In 2023, we launched our global code of Of colleagues who completed our help them understand and interpret insights conduct which is supported by our global anti- annual Snapshot survey relevant to their team, while directing them bullying and harassment code. This continues (2022: 78%) towards support resources for them and their to help us to maintain high standards of teams to explore. Results are also shared with conduct across the Group.
executive leadership teams across the Group, with detailed reporting provided to our Group We have mandatory procedures, both People Committee and the Board. globally and locally, for handling and investigating employee concerns, which We complement the Snapshot survey include those for bullying and harassment.
with our annual Performance and Reward Cases are continually monitored from our survey, which runs every March. Open to speak-up channels, and data is reported to all employees, it captures feedback on our management committees to ensure there is annual performance and pay review cycle, visibility at leadership level.
providing valuable insight into how well we are meeting our colleagues' needs and In 2023, we had a total of 834 concerns raised expectations on compensation, development relating to bullying, harassment, discrimination and professional growth. and retaliation. Where the concerns were substantiated following an investigation, We also run targeted listening activities for appropriate action was taken, which included employees at key moments in their careers, termination of services, where appropriate.
capturing detailed feedback from new joiners, In 2023, 38% of concerns raised were either internal movers and voluntary leavers. partly or fully substantiated and 24 colleagues were dismissed in relation to bullying, harassment, discrimination or retaliation.
Promoting mental health awareness A poll posted by a senior leader on our intranet revealed that 94% of colleagues said they trust leadership more when they open up about their own mental health.
To build on this sentiment, we celebrated World Mental Health Day by running a global awareness campaign 'The Big Mental Health Conversation' in October 2023. We encouraged leaders to post questions on our intranet to gather feedback from colleagues on their experiences and how we can improve mental health support. We surveyed our colleagues during the campaign and half said they were very satisfied with the mental health support HSBC offers. Supporting the mental health of our colleagues continues to be a priority, including ensuring that we continue to signpost how colleagues can access available support. Throughout 2023, we also held over 200 virtual events, featuring internal and external experts providing advice on mental health and topics related to well-being.
ESG review | Social Listening to our colleagues continued Employee engagement We use eight Snapshot indices to measure key areas of focus and compare against peer institutions. The table below sets out how we performed.
vs HSBC vs Index Score1 20222 benchmark3 Questions that make up the index Employee 77% +3 +7 I am proud to say I work for this company.
engagement Right now, I feel motivated by this organisation to do the best job I can.4 I would recommend this company as a great place to work.
Employee 76% +4 +4 I generally look forward to my work day.
focus My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment.
My work is challenging and interesting.
Strategy 78% +3 +5 I have a clear understanding of this company's strategic objectives.
I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
I feel confident about this company's future.
Change 76% 0 +4 Leaders in my area set a positive example.
leadership My line manager does a good job of communicating reasons behind important changes that are made.
Senior leaders in my area communicate openly and honestly about changes to the business.
Speak up 76% +1 0 I believe my views are genuinely listened to when I share my opinion.5 I feel able to speak up when I see behaviour which I consider to be wrong.
I can state my opinion without the fear of negative consequences.6 Trust 78% +1 0 I trust my direct manager.
I trust senior leadership in my area.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
Career 71% +3 +6 I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I believe that we have fair processes for moving/promoting people into new roles.
My line manager actively supports my career development.
Inclusion 78% +2 +2 I feel a genuine sense of belonging to my team.
I feel able to achieve my career objectives at this company.
I feel able to be myself at work.
I trust my direct manager.
Where I work, people are treated fairly.
I can state my opinion without the fear of negative consequences.6 1 Each index comprises constituent questions, with the average of these questions forming the index score.
2 We revised the questions that comprise some of our indices to ensure the reliability of external benchmark data. New questions were trialled in 2022 so comparisons are all reported on a like-for-like basis; as such, historical comparison figures differ slightly from those reported last year.
3 We benchmark Snapshot results against a peer group of global financial services institutions, provided by our research partner, Ipsos Karian and Box. Scores for each question are calculated as the percentage of employees who agree to each statement. For further details of the constituent questions and past results, see the ESG Data Pack at 4 Previously: I feel valued at this company.
5 Previously: My company is genuine in its commitment to encourage colleagues to speak up.
6 Previously: Where I work, people can state their opinion without fear of negative consequences.
For further details of well-being, see page 82, and for further details of inclusion, see page 76.
What employees told us Analysis of the key drivers of our engagement Our Snapshot survey showed that 67% of Seven of our eight Snapshot indices improved scores showed that engaged colleagues are employees plan to stay at HSBC for five or in 2023, while our change leadership index more likely to feel positive about their career, more years, a two percentage point increase remained static. Our headline measure our strategy and our leadership. Our free since 2022. This aligned with a drop in of employee engagement captures how text responses also showed that training and voluntary turnover in 2023 to 9.3%, compared employees feel about HSBC: whether they progression opportunities was the most cited with 14.1% in 2022, and reflects trends in are proud to say they work here, whether they reason for recommending HSBC, followed by the wider employment market. Results from would recommend working at HSBC, and our approach to flexible and hybrid working our listening channels continued to show how motivated they feel to do their best work. and the strength of our management. that career opportunities and competitive Employee engagement increased by three reward packages remain the two key drivers percentage points compared with 2022, and Negative comments continued to focus behind our ability to attract and retain seven percentage points above the external around pay and benefits but were mentioned talented colleagues.
financial services benchmark. Our employee less than in 2022. For further details of our focus index, which measures how employees approach to being a great place to work, We are committed to building on our feel about their day-to-day work, increased including pay transparency, see high levels of engagement and feedback by four percentage points to put HSBC four page 81. throughout 2024.
points ahead of the industry benchmark.
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Social Being a great place to work To deliver our purpose, ambition and strategy Recognising colleagues' success We have continued to enhance our 'At Our we need the best people, performing at their We are committed to recognising the Best' platform that allows colleagues to best. Creating a great workplace helps us achievements of our colleagues' success. recognise each other's contributions, by attract, retain and motivate our colleagues so Variable pay, which forms part of total providing mobile access to encourage realthey can deliver for our customers. compensation alongside fixed pay, allows us time acts of appreciation. In 2023, colleagues to recognise the performance and behaviours made more than 1.4 million At Our Best Underpinning this is our reward strategy, of our colleagues. recognitions, an increase of 13% from 2022.
which we updated in 2022 to create an environment where the best people want to At the beginning of each year, we ask Managers are encouraged to recognise work. Our workforce proposition is rooted in colleagues to set goals with support from colleagues' service anniversaries every our purpose and values, and the principles of their line managers to ensure they are aligned five years up to 40 years of service. This rewarding colleagues responsibly, recognising with the overall Group strategy and business also includes the presentation of a special colleagues' success and supporting our priorities. As a result, 87% of colleagues said commemorative HSBC medallion. The colleagues to grow. they have a clear understanding of what is At Our Best platform supports the global expected of them throughout the year. service recognition programme, which in Rewarding colleagues responsibly 2023 helped to celebrate more than 30,000 We believe in rewarding our colleagues We expect our people managers to hold service anniversaries.
responsibly, which means ensuring that our regular performance and development pay and benefits provide financial security conversations to review progress, incorporate Share plans are another way to empower for all. Our annual Performance and Reward feedback and discuss well-being. In 2023, colleagues to participate in the Group's survey measures several factors, including our Snapshot survey revealed that 81% of success and to have a share in the rewards.
how colleagues feel about our reward colleagues said they had regular performance In 2023, we expanded our global share plan proposition. In 2023, seven key performance conversations with their manager, while 63% to include the Philippines, making it available indicators related to our year-end review had them at least once a month, up from 57% to 91% of colleagues globally. Our 2020 threeimproved by four or more percentage points, in 2022. These conversations also provide an year Sharesave plan, in which 42% of UK including a nine percentage point increase in opportunity for colleagues to regularly revisit employees took part, matured in November colleagues who feel they are paid fairly for the any goals set to maintain the right level of 2023. The share price at maturity represented work they do. challenge in their day-to-day work. more than double the option price, providing employees with significant share price growth.
As part of our commitment to rewarding At year-end, employees are rated on both We ran information webinars, attended by colleagues responsibly, we went beyond performance and behaviour. In our Pay and more than 11,000 colleagues, and offered compliance in assessing statutory minimum Benefits survey, 72% of colleagues said their support resources to help our colleagues wages, to ensure that all colleagues are paid at year-end performance assessment fairly understand tax considerations and the choices least a living wage. reflected their performance and 83% agreed available to them at maturity.
that rating decisions were determined in an A living wage should be sufficient to cover an unbiased way, regardless of any protected Supporting our colleagues to grow adequate standard of living considering the characteristics or work patterns. In our To help our colleagues to grow personally and cost of goods and services in each country Snapshot survey, 81% of employees said they professionally, we are committed to providing and territory in which we operate. In 2023, receive feedback that helps them improve flexibility and choice around how, when and we worked with the Fair Wage Network, their performance, compared with 74% in where they work, supporting their well-being, which provided an independent source of 2022, and 81% feel motivated to do the best and helping them develop skills. The sections wage levels. As a result, HSBC achieved job they can, up from 78% last year. on the next page detail the ways in which we accreditation as a global living wage employer support our colleagues. For further details of in 2024. We will continue to review our pay our approach to skills and career development, levels to ensure that no colleague falls below a see page 83.
living wage level.
For further details of our approach to colleague remuneration, see page 290.
Increasing social connection in the office Since the Covid-19 pandemic and the return of colleagues to the office, we identified the need for changes to improve team cohesion and a sense of belonging among our colleagues in Hong Kong. To help address, this we created a new type of work and social space at the HSBC Centre office in Kowloon, Hong Kong.
'The Hub' is a flexible informal space that can be adapted to accommodate a range of different group activities and number of people, from large social events to smaller team training sessions. It is also designed to be a multi-level and interconnected space, with a central social meeting point to enhance the sense of community, improve levels of engagement and encourage greater social connection between colleagues.
ESG review | Social Being a great place to work continued Social well-being and flexible working We have continued to make the meditation Prioritising benefits that In 2023, we focused on embedding hybrid app Headspace and counselling services working across the Group and helping available to all colleagues globally. matter most to colleagues strike the right balance of office and remote working. More than 200,000 colleagues took part in colleagues mental health awareness training as part Our colleagues continue to embrace hybrid of global mandatory training. Our voluntary For a second year our Pay and Benefits working, with 78% now splitting their time mental health education modules have been survey showed that 59% of colleagues between home and the workplace, compared completed by 31,000 employees, with people feel their benefits meet their needs with 58% in 2022. To support managers managers making up 74% of the completions. and those of their family 'well'. To and colleagues to continue to find the right Our network of mindfulness champions, who improve sentiment, we have focused balance between individual flexibility and are specially trained colleagues who volunteer on enhancing benefits in areas that social connection, we have refreshed our to run mindfulness sessions, community colleagues tell us are most important training to equip managers with skills to events and courses for the benefit of fellow including health, saving for the future lead flexible teams. In 2023, hybrid workers colleagues, has almost 200 members with and time off.
spent approximately 47% of their time in the representation in 22 countries and territories.
workplace, compared with 36% in 2022. In 2023, we held 1,400 mindfulness sessions, Cancer checks were made available to a 26% increase compared with 2022, and all UK colleagues, as early detection We know that getting the balance right has a these were attended by 25,000 colleagues. can result in higher survival rates. In positive effect on our colleagues. Colleagues the US, we have enhanced our fertility, who spend around 40% of their time in the Physical well-being adoption and surrogacy benefits to workplace reported the highest positive The Snapshot survey also revealed an increase support colleagues starting a family. We sentiment across key employee indices, in physical well-being, with 74% of colleagues also expanded our gender dysphoria including engagement, trust and inclusion. rating their physical health as positive, benefits for LGBTQ+ colleagues in compared with 71% in 2022. the UK.
We track and measure responses from our Snapshot survey to ensure our broader In February 2023, our Pay and Benefits Carer leave of five paid working days approach to flexibility works for our customers survey showed that 69% of colleagues highly has also been introduced in the UAE, and teams. A total of 81% of colleagues said valued the health benefits we offer, and 34% Egypt, Algeria, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, they feel a genuine sense of belonging to their of colleagues wanted more support with Türkiye, Saudi Arabia and Mexico.
team, a two percentage point increase from physical activity and exercise. In response, we
2022. A new question in the survey also found launched a platform called Virgin Pulse, which To help employees plan for their that 87% of new joiners feel they receive the incentivises colleagues to set and track health retirement, we became the first right level of face-to-face support in order goals, and to take part in active challenges. international bank to launch a defined to succeed. Since launching globally in November 2023, contribution pension plan in Vietnam.
more than 5,700 colleagues have downloaded We also implemented a new defined In the same survey, 76% of colleagues said the app and more than 30 activity challenges contribution plan in Guernsey and they are able to integrate their work and have been run. enhanced our retirement savings plan personal life positively, a slight increase in Egypt, to support employees to compared with 75% in 2022. To help the work- We have continued to provide access plan for retirement with the benefit of life balance of our colleagues, in Australia, to private medical insurance as well as employer contributions.
we have introduced 20-weeks paid, gender- telemedicine healthcare services in the neutral parental leave for when a child joins majority of our countries and territories, their family. Longer periods of paid parental covering 98% of permanent employees. In leave have also been introduced in Mexico, certain countries and territories, we also Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. provide on-site medical centres that the majority of colleagues can access. retirement or longer-term savings plans to Mental well-being 95% of permanent employees, and our life Supporting the mental health of our Financial well-being insurance cover is available to 99.9% of colleagues remains a top priority. Cost-of- We recognise that financial challenges remain colleagues to help provide financial security living pressures and global crises continue a concern for colleagues, caused by increases for their families.
to increase mental health challenges in in the cost of living globally. Our Snapshot many countries and territories. Our Snapshot survey revealed a slight increase in financial Awards survey revealed a slight decrease in mental well-being, with 61% of colleagues reporting CCLA Global 100 Mental Health well-being, with 83% of colleagues rating positively, compared with 60% in 2022. Just Benchmark their mental health as positive, compared over half (56%) of colleagues said they have - Ranked number 1 global employer for with 84% in 2022. However, it also found that at least three months of essential outgoings the second consecutive year 74% of colleagues feel comfortable talking to saved, the same as in 2022.
their manager about their mental health, and 77% said they know how to access mental In 2023, we ran campaigns in all regions health support at work. Both increased one to raise awareness of financial education percentage point compared with 2022. and tools, and more than 1,000 colleagues attended our seminars on psychology and spending habits. We continue to offer 82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Social Developing skills, careers and opportunities Learning and skills development We aim to build a dynamic environment We have continued to deliver targeted Identifying and retaining where our colleagues can develop skills and skills programmes, including our Vision undertake experiences that help them fulfil 27 programme that aims to ensure we are future talent their potential. Our approach helps us meet attracting, developing and retaining critical our key strategic priorities and support our technology talent. We have also expanded The need for talent is greater than ever.
colleagues to achieve their career goals. our Accelerating Wealth Programme, which In 2023, a further 9,000 managers prioritises hiring for transferable skills rather completed our compulsory inclusive Our learning and skills platforms than experience. For further details of how we hiring training, promoting cognitive We continue to evolve the opportunities to are achieving our wealth goals in Asia, awareness of bias. Our targeted talent learn and develop at HSBC. We use a range see page 84.
programmes and enterprise-wide of skill development platforms, learning solutions are designed to support courses and resources to help colleagues Building skills with Talent Marketplace employees transitioning to more take ownership of their development and Our people capability teams partner with complex roles, and provide wider career career, including: businesses and functions to identify the key opportunities and career growth.
skills we need now and in the future. We also
- HSBC University, our home for learning continue to support colleagues to develop Our recruitment programmes are a and skills accessed online and through a new skills that achieve their career aspirations.
key enabler of achieving our broader network of training centres, where learning diversity goals (see page 76). In 2023, is organised through technical academies We have helped colleagues identify we welcomed more than 720 graduates on topics of strategic importance; opportunities to enhance their skills through and 651 interns to the organisation.
our Talent Marketplace. More than 38,000
- Degreed, our learning experience platform The graduate intake represented colleagues have created a profile on the that provides access to internal and 48 nationalities, over 25 ethnic platform to help identify their existing skills external learning content and courses, backgrounds, and 51% were women.
and those they would like to develop. In 2023, where colleagues can share, collaborate In 2023, we continued to broaden our it matched colleagues to a number of projects and learn with individuals and in groups via emerging talent programmes beyond and networking opportunities unlocking over learning pathways; traditional graduate and internship 123,000 hours of skills development.
- Talent Marketplace, our online platform that programmes, developing early access uses artificial intelligence ('AI') to match schemes for those in school and first Projects centred around Cloud computing, colleagues interested in developing specific year of university, as well as expanding data analytics, software development skills or career goals with opportunities that our apprenticeship scheme (see and project management have created exist throughout our global network; and page 84).
opportunities for colleagues to work on in-
- Careers at HSBC, which enables all demand skills.
employees to set alerts and search for We continually refresh all our talent internal career opportunities. Training at HSBC programmes to ensure they remain aligned to HSBC's strategic priorities.
In 2023, we continued to enable colleagues to Our learning fundamentals learn via a range of channels including digital Our key programmes include: We expect all colleagues, regardless of their and on-the-job learning. This is reflected contract type, to complete global mandatory in a reduction in overall learning hours as - Accelerating Female Leaders, training each year. This training plays a colleagues access different learning channels. which has been re-designed in critical role in shaping our culture, ensuring partnership with Cranfield School a focus on the issues that are fundamental 5.3 million of Management. This programme to our work, such as sustainability, financial supports female colleagues with crime risk and our intolerance of bullying and learning materials, coaching and harassment. New joiners attend our Global Training hours by our colleagues in 2023. senior sponsorship to help them Discovery programme, which is designed to (2022: 6.3 million) prepare for leadership roles; and build their knowledge of the organisation and - Accelerating into Leadership, which engage with our purpose, values and strategy. 23.9 hours aims to improve role mobility and retention, and supports colleagues As the risks and opportunities our business identified as having the capacity, faces change, our global academies adapt Training hours per FTE in 2023. interest and drive to succeed in more to offer general and targeted development. (2022: 28.8 hours) complex roles.
Our Risk Academy provides learning for every employee in traditional areas of risk management such as financial crime risk, and also offers more specific development for those in senior leadership, high-risk roles and learning for colleagues on emerging issues such as ESG risk, terrorist financing, proliferation financing and sanctions.
ESG review | Social Energising our colleagues for growth We aspire to offer colleagues the opportunity We need to build strong leadership and In 2023, our technology colleagues completed to develop their skills while ensuring we build develop our colleagues' capabilities to more than 800,000 hours of learning and a pipeline of talent to support our strategic navigate the transition to net zero and achieve gained over 950 certifications in software priorities. It is vital that we demonstrate our climate goals. In 2023, we worked with our development, cyber, AI, data processes, Cloud the right leadership and create the right internal experts from the Sustainability Centre computing and app development, among environment to energise our colleagues of Excellence to provide more advanced skills others. Our new Principle Engineer and for growth. training in key transition areas such as energy Principle Architecture accelerator programmes transition, climate technology and financed have equipped colleagues with advanced Skilling the transition to net zero emissions, alongside other core sustainability technical knowledge and skills, enhancing The Sustainability Academy was launched in topics such as biodiversity. their ability to innovate in their roles.
2022 to support our net zero ambitions. As the academy has evolved we have shifted the Supporting our Asia wealth strategy Leadership development focus from knowledge building to capability Our ambition is to become the preferred We continue to strengthen the training and building across key colleague groups who are international financial partner for clients, and development opportunities we offer our supporting customers on their transition to net the expansion of our wealth management leaders at all levels of the Group, to ensure zero. In 2023, we applied four main activities services particularly in Asia, sits at the heart of they are equipped with the clarity, alignment to support this effort: this ambition. and capability with our goals to drive the performance of our organisation. In 2023,
- supplying on-demand learning modules To help achieve this, we have continued to we significantly increased investment in the based on role, region and client-base for expand our Accelerating Wealth Programme, development of our leadership population.
colleagues who support customers with which offers a skills-based development plan core transition activities; for colleagues who are looking to pursue a For senior leaders, our Executive and
- creating advanced workshops across career as a relationship manager in wealth Managing Director Leadership Programmes our global businesses and functions management. The programme enables HSBC helped bring our purpose and strategy to to build colleagues' knowledge and to develop talent from within and hire talented life through innovative flagship courses, develop practical skills to achieve people with different career backgrounds from masterclasses and strategy briefing sessions.
business outcomes; outside the business. In 2023, we extended the programme to external applicants in Hong We recognise the importance of people
- encouraging external certifications and Kong and to internal applicants in mainland managers in shaping the experience of our qualifications, where required, to deepen China, India and Singapore. We will continue colleagues. In 2023, we re-designed our colleagues' expertise; and to add new countries and territories in 2024 to People Management Excellence programme
- designing a 16-week sustainability provide a sustainable hiring channel for front- to better support managers at all levels. The leadership programme, in partnership line roles. face-to-face and virtual training includes with Imperial College London, which a focus on the role and expectations of combines education on core sustainability Technology transformation managers, how to design and organise concepts with change management, We are committed to delivering better work, and how to nurture a productive team purpose and leadership principles. In customer outcomes through digital environment. In 2023, over 3,800 colleagues 2023, the programme was completed by transformation. Our technology transformation attended this programme.
more than 170 senior leaders. Additional skills programme aims to ensure we attract, net zero learning opportunities were also develop and retain the skilled talent we need provided to the Board and 100 of our most to execute our strategy.
senior leaders.
Supporting UK emerging talent We continue to extend our emerging talent programmes beyond traditional graduate and internship schemes to support our socio-economic diversity ambitions (see page 78). In 2023, we awarded more than 100 apprenticeships to external and internal applicants. Our degree apprenticeship programmes provided an alternative to the traditional university route for 47 individuals, and we launched a disability apprenticeship programme for our Marketing function.
We have also offered over 460 structured work placements to secondary school students and continued to support the #merkybook financial literacy programme for young people.
HSBC has funded 30 University of Cambridge scholarships for Black and socially disadvantaged students through our Stormzy partnership, and will invest a further £2m to achieve 60 scholarships by 2026 to support underrepresented groups. In 2023, Black heritage representation in our graduate and summer internship programmes was 10% of job applicants and 11% of new hires.
84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Social Building customer inclusion and resilience Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience We believe that financial services, when insights and view financial fitness content. We are committed to improving accessibility accessible and fair, can reduce inequality This new tab on the app has attracted over experiences across our digital channels and and help more people access opportunities. 4.5 million unique visitors. We also added continuously review our browser-based We are playing an active role in opening investment pots and goals to help motivate websites in 23 markets, and our mobile up a world of opportunity for individuals by customers to save for the future. banking services in 18 markets, against the supporting their financial well-being, and WCAG 2.0 AA standards. We also share removing the different barriers that people can In 2022, we launched our 'Well+' reward our digital accessibility expertise with face in accessing financial services. programme on the HSBC HK Mobile Banking partners, companies and colleagues. More app to help customers improve the health than 10,000 people and 66 companies have Access to products and services of their body, money and mind. Reward taken advantage of our specialised training We provide innovative solutions to help points are earned by completing a series programmes. To further share our best improve customer access to products and of simple activities, such as building their practice externally, HSBC sponsored and services. HSBC UK and HSBC Hong Kong financial knowledge. In 2023, we added new hosted AbilityNet's Techshare Pro event in provide no-cost accounts for customers capabilities, such as bonus badges, and more our Group head office in London. Our work who do not qualify for a standard account than 212,000 customers have engaged with on digital accessibility was recognised with or who might need additional support due Well+ in Hong Kong since launch. 11 awards in 2023.
to social or financial vulnerability. In 2023, HSBC Egypt ran a campaign that allowed To help customers understand complex Support for customers extends beyond our new customers to open bank accounts products and make informed decisions, digital channels and we recognise that not all with no minimum balance required and no HSBC Life UK launched a series of quick disabilities are visible or immediately obvious account opening fees. In the UK, we continue video guides to explain the key benefits, to others. We have expanded our commitment to make our branches more accessible by exclusions and underwriting process of critical to the Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard providing 'safe spaces' for domestic abuse illness cover. Scheme, rolling it out across the UK, Hong victims, where they can seek specialist Kong, the Channel Islands and Australia. The support and advice. In 2023, we also launched To support Hong Kong customers with special lanyard indicates that an individual may need a specialist training programme to raise educational needs, we launched simple a little more help, support or time. HSBC UK is awareness among our colleagues of modern step-by-step guides, which were shared with also making use of virtual reality tools, such as slavery and human trafficking. This has been our partners, to explain how to access basic EBOX (Empathy Box), to give colleagues the completed by more than 5,300 UK colleagues. banking services. opportunity to experience vulnerability from In addition, our strategic partnership with the perspective of the customer.
housing and homelessness charity Shelter We also support programmes that help UK aims to support those in crisis and build expand the financial knowledge of children In 2023, HSBC UK was awarded the financial resilience solutions to help prevent and young people to ensure future resilience. UK Construction Industry Council's homelessness in the future. HSBC Egypt partnered with Injaz Al-Arab, Inclusive Environments Recognition at a member of JA Worldwide, to deliver its the Organisational Level certification. This 'building a financially capable generation' recognises the strong organisation and design Making banking accessible programme to students in seven schools processes HSBC has put in place to support Number of no-cost accounts held for in Cairo. In Mexico, we created a podcast, accessible and inclusive design.
customers who do not qualify for a standard targeted at developing the financial account or who might need additional capabilities of young people with each Supporting women support due to social or financial vulnerability.
episode covering a specific theme, to HSBC UAE and HSBC Singapore have 2023 718,306 enhance their basic financial knowledge. collaborated with digital financial education provider Sophia, to create a programme 2022 716,957 We continued to build on our financial literacy designed specifically to help female customers 2021 692,655 programmes for young people in the UK, with build their financial knowledge. It covers a the launch of the first financial capability skills range of topics, including budgeting, ways to module for the Duke of Edinburgh's Award. invest and investment strategies.
Supporting financial knowledge and education Creating an inclusive banking experience In Mexico, our Mujeres Al Mundo programme We continue to invest in financial education We aim to ensure that our banking products continues to support women as customers content and features across different and services are designed to be accessible for through products, services, education and channels to help customers, colleagues customers experiencing either temporary or networking. In 2023, we also supported and communities be confident users of permanent challenging circumstances, such female-owned businesses through our $1bn financial services. as disability, impairment or a major life event. Female Entrepreneur Fund, alongside hosting bespoke Pitch Day events for a number of Since 2020, we received over 6.6 million A simplified version of the HSBC HK Mobile female entrepreneurs seeking investment.
unique visitors to our global digital financial Banking app aims to continue to enhance education content. We continue to help digital inclusion for all, including seniors. The customers expand their financial capabilities app is the first of its kind among Hong Kong through our personal financial management banks and has attracted more than 477,000 tools. In 2023, HSBC UK launched new unique users since launch.
capabilities on our app enabling customers to manage their budgets, see their spending ESG review | Social Engaging with our communities Building a more inclusive and resilient world We have a long-standing commitment to We also work with our charity partners around Charitable giving in 2023 (%) support the communities in which we operate. the world to strengthen the resilience of We aim to empower people and communities disadvantaged communities: to develop the skills and knowledge needed to thrive in the future. - In Hong Kong, we announced a three-year partnership with Food Angel to increase its Through the global reach of our charitable capacity to provide meals to underprivileged partnerships we bring together diverse people, elderly groups.
ideas and perspectives that help us open up - In the US, we expanded our workforce opportunities and build a more inclusive world. development programme with Feeding America to support communities to Building community and future skills find meaningful employment, especially Social, including Future Skills: 26% We work with charity partners to initiate mothers and Black, Indigenous People of Environment, including the Climate programmes that help people and Colour women. Solutions Partnership: 37% communities respond to opportunities and Local priorities: 24%
- In the UK, we announced a three-year challenges as global economies transition Disaster relief and other giving: 13% partnership with Shelter to help develop the towards a low-carbon future. In 2023, homeless charity's training, guidance, tools these included: and support within local communities to help build financial resilience.
- launching a three-year partnership with Total cash giving towards the British Council in Brazil, Mexico, India, - In France, we continued our work with charitable programmes Indonesia and Vietnam, and extending The Article 1 to help young people from deprived Prince's Trust programmes in Australia, communities succeed in higher education $107.3m Canada, India and Malaysia, to help young, through mentoring programmes.
marginalised people develop the skills they - We supported disaster relief agency need to thrive in the green economy; response to humanitarian needs, including
- partnering with the Guangdong Lvya Rural those in Israel, Libya, Morocco, the Women Development Foundation in China Palestinian territories, Türkiye, and the Hours volunteered during work time to help equip women in remote mountain Hawaiian island of Maui.
areas with sustainable farming skills; and >181,800 Community engagement
- partnering with the Ghabbour Foundation and volunteering in Egypt to help provide technicians with We offer paid volunteering days, and specialist skills training to work in the encourage our people to offer their time, electric vehicle market.
skills and knowledge to causes within their People projected to be reached through communities. In 2023, our colleagues gave our Future Skills programme over 181,800 hours to community activities during work hours. 1.25m Awards
- National CSR Fund 2023 UAE - Platinum Impact Seal
- Charitable giving by HSBC in China received recognition from the China Philanthropy Times Advancing financing and digital literacy Over the past five years, HSBC worked with three microfinance networks to advance financial and digital literacy of women from unbanked and underbanked communities in India. The programme has engaged with more than 550,000 women to build awareness and understanding of digital payment platforms, and enhance their ability to access banking services, such as savings, credit and insurance, as well as government welfare schemes. By the end of 2023, 56,000 women had undertaken loan repayments worth $521,000 via digital channels. Insights from the initiative will be shared with financial institutions and the National Payment Corporation of India, set up by the banking regulator to oversee retail payments and settlement systems in India, to increase unbanked households' access to financial services and products.
86 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Governance Governance Acting responsibly We remain committed to high standards of governance.
We work alongside our regulators and recognise our contribution to building healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance Our relationship customer feedback so we know where we We strive to meet our responsibilities to We act on our responsibility to run our need to improve, and take steps to do this. Our society, including through being transparent business in a way that upholds high standards customer satisfaction performance improved in our approach to paying taxes. We also seek of corporate governance. in many markets in which we operate, to ensure we respect global standards on although we still have work to do to improve human rights in our workplace and our supply Customer experience is at the heart of how our rank position against competitors. chains, and continually work to improve our we operate. It is imperative that we treat compliance management capabilities.
our customers well, that we listen, and that We are committed to working with our we act to resolve complaints quickly and regulators to manage the safety of the For further details of our corporate fairly. We measure customer satisfaction financial system, adhering to the spirit and the governance, see our corporate governance report on page 238.
through net promoter scores across each letter of the rules and regulations governing of our global businesses, listen carefully to our industry.
In this section Setting high How ESG is governed We expect that our approach to ESG governance is likely to continue Page 88 standards of to develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and governance stakeholder expectations.
Human rights Our respect for We have continued to raise awareness and develop our Page 89 human rights understanding of our salient human rights issues.
Customer Customer satisfaction While we are ranked in the top three banks against our competitors in Page 91 experience 58% of our key markets across WPB and CMB, we still have work to do to improve our rank position against competitors How we listen We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and P age 92 manage complaints.
Integrity, conduct Safeguarding the We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and reduce Page 94 and fairness financial system its impact on our organisation, customers and communities that we serve.
Whistleblowing Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our Page 94 colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
A responsible We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which Page 95 approach to tax we operate.
Conduct: Our product Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on Page 96 responsibilities the impact we have on our customers and the geographies in which we operate.
Our approach with We require suppliers to meet our third-party risk compliance Page 96 our suppliers standards and we assess them to identify any financial stability concerns.
Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting and respecting the data we hold and Page 97 process, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the markets in which we operate.
Cybersecurity We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, Page 98 detect and mitigate cyber threats.
ESG review | Governance Setting high standards of governance TCFD How ESG is governed The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG defining and measuring the success of our We expect that our approach to ESG strategy, overseeing executive management climate ambition, and developing commercial governance is likely to continue to develop, in developing the approach, execution and opportunities that support it through the in line with our evolving approach to ESG associated reporting. Progress against our sustainability execution programme. matters and stakeholder expectations.
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board discussion and review of key topics such as updates on customer experience and How HSBC's climate employee sentiment. The Board is regularly strategy is cascaded provided with specific updates on ESG matters, including the financed emissions Opportunities Risks sector targets, human rights and employee well-being. Board members receive ESG- Board level governance related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, and seek out further opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area. For further details of Board members' ESG skills and experience, Group Executive Committee Group Audit Committee Group Risk Committee see page 239. For further details of their induction and training in 2023, see page 253.
Management level governance Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG matters, the governance activities are ESG Committee Group Risk Management Meeting managed through a combination of specialist Has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, Oversees the enterprise-wide governance infrastructure and regular material commitments and external management of all risks, including meetings and committees, where appropriate. disclosure. Oversees and monitors updates relating to the Group's climate progress against ESG strategy, policies, risk profile and risk appetite, top and These include the Group Disclosure and plans, targets, commitments and emerging climate risks, and key Controls Committee and Group Audit execution processes. Reports to the climate initiatives.
Committee, which provide oversight for the Board of progress on the commitments, scope and content of ESG disclosures, and deliverables and targets under the Chair: Group Chief Risk and the Group People Committee, which provides sustainability execution programme. Compliance Officer oversight support for the Group's approach to Co-Chairs: Group Chief Financial Officer, performance management. For some areas, and Group Chief Sustainability Officer such as climate where our approach is more advanced, dedicated governance activities Supporting governance exist to support the wide range of activities, including climate risk management in the Environmental Risk Oversight Forum. Sustainability Execution C ommittee Environmental Risk Oversight Forum Has oversight of environmental strategy, Oversees risk activities relating to including commercial execution and climate and sustainability risk The Group Chief Risk and Compliance operationalisation through the management, including the transition Officer and the chief risk officers of our PRAsustainability execution programme. and physical risks from climate regulated businesses are the senior managers This included financed and facilitated change. Equivalent forums have been responsible for climate financial risks under emissions targets and commitments, established at a regional level, where the UK Senior Managers Regime. Climate risks implementation and execution of app ropriate.
are considered in the Group Risk Management transition plans, and delivery of $750bn Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, to $1tn sustainable finance and Chair: Senior adviser, ESG Risk with scheduled updates provided, as well as investment by 2030.
detailed reviews of material matters, such as Chair: Group Head of Commercial climate-related stress testing exercises.
Banking, and Group Chief Sustainability Officer The diagram on the right provides an illustration of our ESG governance process, Regional, global business and global functions including how the Board's strategy on climate is cascaded and implemented throughout Examples of ESG-related management governance the organisation. It identifies examples of The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.
forums that manage both climate-related opportunities and risks, along with their Digital Business Services Group Reputational Human Rights Executive Committee Risk Committee Steering Committee responsibilities and the responsible chair.
Oversees the global delivery Provides recommendations Oversees the Group's The structure of the process is similar for of ESG activities within our and advice on significant evolving approach to the escalation of problems, with issues own operations, services reputational risk matters human rights and provides either resolved in a given forum or raised and technology elements of with impact across enhanced governance.
to the appropriate level of governance with our strategy. the Group.
appropriate scope and authority. Chair: Group Chief Risk Chair: Group Chief Chair: Group Chief Risk and and Compliance Officer In 2023, we enhanced our ESG governance Operating Officer Compliance Officer with the establishment of a new Sustainability Execution Committee, which focuses on 88 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Governance Human rights Our respect for human rights As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we Our salient human rights issues recognise the role of business in respecting Illustration of HSBC Group's inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.
human rights. Our approach is guided by HSBC activities the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ('UNGPs') and the OECD Provider of products and Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on services Responsible Business Conduct.
Personal Business Inherent human rights risks Employer Buyer customers customers Investor1 Our salient human rights issues We continue to raise awareness and develop Right to Freedom from ◆ ◆ ◆ decent forced labour our understanding of our salient human rights work issues. These are the human rights at risk of Just and favourable ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ the most severe negative impact through our conditions of work business activities and relationships. Right to health and ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ safety at work An extensive review of our salient human rights issues conducted in 2022 identified Right to equality and freedom ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ from discrimination five human rights risks inherent to HSBC's business globally, and five types of activity Right to privacy ◆ ◆ ◆ through which such risks might arise. These Cultural and land rights ◆ ◆ ◆ are represented in the adjacent table.
Right to dignity and justice ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ ◆ In 2023, building on this assessment, we provided practical guidance and training, 1 Investor includes our activities in HSBC Asset Management.
where relevant, to our colleagues across the Group on how to identify and manage human rights risk. We continued to develop our in-house Through our membership of international capability on human rights with the launch certification schemes such as the Forestry We are now focusing on translating this into of further online resources for all staff and Stewardship Council, the Roundtable risk management enhancements in two key bespoke human rights training for colleagues on Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator areas of activity. These are the services we in key roles, including those managing Principles, we support standards aimed at provide to business customers and the goods relationships with suppliers, and those respecting human rights.
and services we buy from third parties. with responsibility for overseeing risk management processes. Our sustainability risk policies are reviewed Managing risks to human rights periodically to ensure they reflect our priorities.
In 2023, we continued the process of adapting The actions we are taking to address our risk management procedures to reflect these salient human rights issues are For further details, see our sustainability risk what we learned from our work on salient consistent with our values and will help us policies at human rights issues and related guidance. to meet our commitments on diversity and sustainability-risk.
inclusion, and those we have made under We continued to embed and build on the UN Global Compact and WEF metrics Financial crime controls the Sustainable Procurement Mandatory on risk for incidents of child, forced or The risk of us causing, contributing or being Procedure, which sets out the minimum compulsory labour.
linked to adverse human rights impacts is sustainability requirements for procurement also mitigated by our financial crime risk activity. This included enhanced procedures For further details of the actions taken to respect framework, which includes our global policies for human rights risk identification through the right to decent work, see our 2023 Annual Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at and associated controls.
the introduction of a human rights residual

risk questionnaire for suppliers as part of our For further details of the actions taken to respect For further details of how we fight financial global onboarding assessment process, and the right to equality and freedom from crime, see human rights supplier audit pilots in our Asia- discrimination, see 'Our approach to diversity esg-and-responsible-business/ Pacific and Latin America regions to assess and inclusion' on page 76. fighting-financial-crime.
the potential need for further supplier audits in the future. Sustainability risk policies Some of our business customers operate New approaches to identifying and managing in sectors where the risk of adverse human human rights risk in respect of our business rights impact is high. Our sustainability risk customers have also been piloted. These policies for agricultural commodities, energy, included screening for indicators of potential forestry, mining and metals consider human negative impacts on people, including media rights issues such as forced labour, harmful or monitoring and other relevant third-party data. exploitative child labour and land rights. They also consider the rights of indigenous peoples such as 'free prior and informed consent', workers' rights, and the health and safety of communities.
ESG review | Governance Our respect for human rights continued Driving change HSBC Asset Management has also Supporting those impacted and those We continued to participate in industry incorporated human rights and modern potentially at risk forums, including the Thun Group of Banks, slavery considerations into its Global We continued to expand our Survivor Bank which is an informal group that seeks to Voting Guidelines. This helps to identify programme, which has now supported over promote understanding of the UNGPs within non-compliance with UN Global Compact 3,000 survivors of modern slavery and human the sector, and the UN Global Compact principles, as well as a company's trafficking in the UK, and is a model for Human Rights Working Group. competency in human rights management making financial services more accessible to and disclosures. Where a company falls below vulnerable communities worldwide.
HSBC has been a member of the Mekong expectations, HSBC Asset Management may Club since 2016. We are a participant of its vote against the re-election of the board chair We built on this experience in developing monthly financial services working group, and or relevant board director. access to banking services for customers we use its informative typological toolkits, with no fixed abode in the UK and in Hong infographics, and other multimedia resources As a signatory to the Net Zero Asset Kong, providing over 5,700 accounts under covering current and emerging issues. Our Management Initiative, HSBC Asset these programmes.
Compliance teams regularly collaborate and Management is taking steps to reduce the engage with the Mekong Club in designing carbon exposure of its portfolios and engage For further details of our work to support Group-wide knowledge sharing and with issuers on their climate strategies. It vulnerable communities, see page 86.
training sessions. also recognises the impact that the climate transition can have on workers, communities, Effectiveness Investments consumers and other stakeholders, and has The table below includes some indicative Since 2022, HSBC Asset Management has published its perspectives on a just transition. metrics we use to measure year-on-year published an annual Global Stewardship continual improvement to our human Plan outlining its approach to engagement, For the Global Stewardship Plan, see rights processes.
prioritisation of investee companies, objective- attachments/uk/policies/stewardship-plan-uk.pdf. For further diversity and inclusion metrics, see setting and escalation procedures. The plan For further details of the Net Zero Asset page 76 in this ESG review, as well as Section 4 also highlights its thematic priorities including Management Initiative, see www. of the 2023 Annual Statement under the UK human rights. assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/institutional- Modern Slavery Act, which is available at www.
investor/about-us/road-to-net-zero/a-transition- hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsibleHSBC Asset Management recognises for-everyone. business/modern-slavery-act.
collaborative engagement as a tool to promote change. It participates in investor-led joint engagement initiatives where it believes these can have a positive influence. It is a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Monitoring effectiveness Investment Advance initiative to promote active stewardship on human rights and social Metric 2023 2022 issues. It has also actively contributed to other Contracted suppliers who either confirmed adherence to the code of sector-specific initiatives, including engaging conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our 95% 93% with technology firms on digital rights and Global Procurement function responsible AI, and working with ESG data providers to promote higher quality human Employees who have received training on human rights 8,176 520 rights data set.
Votes by HSBC Asset Management against management for reasons 213 87 including human rights1 1 The figure represents the number of resolutions at investee company shareholder meetings (including AGMs) where votes were cast against management for reasons related to human rights.
Working for a just transition Just Energy Transition Partnerships are becoming increasingly popular bringing key stakeholders together to enable a clean, fair energy transition in emerging economies that rely heavily on coal.
Essentially, they are multilateral financial agreements aimed at accelerating the phase-out of fossil fuels, in a way that addresses the social consequences of doing so.
For further details on HSBC's role in Just Energy Transition Partnerships with Indonesia and Vietnam, see

Read more on Just Energy Transition Partnerships on page 68 of this ESG Review.
90 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Governance Customer experience We remain committed to improving In 2023, we launched the CMB Customer In CMB, we were ranked among the top three customers' experiences. In 2023, we gathered Impact Forum, a dedicated global forum banks against our competitors in four of our feedback from over one million customers set up to provide oversight of our business six key markets. We ranked first in Hong Kong across our three global businesses to help us and corporate customers' experiences and and as a top three bank in mainland China, understand our strengths and the areas we promote continuous improvement. This, Singapore and Mexico. In India and the UK, need to focus on. We were ranked among alongside our WPB 'Customer in the room' we were ranked outside the top three. Our the top three banks against our competitors programme launched in 2022, helps ensure NPS rank improved in the UK, driven by our in 58% of our six key markets across WPB we use feedback in all aspects of how we business banking customers and our top three and CMB1. This was lower than in 2022 when run our business and prioritise initiatives that ranking among UK corporate customers. Our we were ranked among the top three banks matter most to our customers. NPS declined slightly among our mid-market against our competitors in 66% of our key enterprise customers.
markets. How we fared In WPB, our NPS increased in four of our In GBM, we had one of the highest NPS Customer satisfaction six key markets, which were Hong Kong, scores in the market against our competitors, Mexico, India and Singapore. Our NPS in including the quality of our digital trade the UK declined slightly, largely among our finance platforms and for satisfaction with our Listening to drive improvement mass affluent customers. In Hong Kong, we digital capabilities.
We have continued to embed our feedback remained first overall against our competitors, system so we can better listen, learn and driven by our mass affluent customers.
act on our customers' feedback. We use In India we ranked in first place, driven by Number of markets in top three the net promoter score ('NPS') to provide a increased digitalisation. We introduced digital or improving rank1,2 consistent measure of our performance. NPS self-service solutions for updating customer is measured by subtracting the percentage details and downloading key documents, 2023 of 'detractors' from the percentage of and digitised our onboarding process. We WPB3 3 out of 6 'promoters'. 'Detractors' are customers who were also a top three bank in mainland China, provide a score of 0 to 6, and 'promoters' are based on 2022 data (see footnote 3 in the CMB 5 out of 6 customers who provide a score of 9 to 10 to adjacent table).
the question: 'On a scale on 0 to 10, how likely is it that you would recommend HSBC to a In our private bank, our global NPS increased 1 The six markets comprise: the UK, Hong Kong, friend or colleague'. to 42 points, compared with 25 points in 2022. Mexico, mainland China, India and Singapore.
This was largely due to increased customer Rank positions are provided using data gathered We run studies that allow us to benchmark satisfaction in Asia, with improved scores in through third-party research agencies.
ourselves against other banks. We try to make Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and mainland 2 We benchmark our NPS against our key it as easy as possible for customers to give us China. This was driven by relationship competitors to create a rank position in each feedback, accelerating our use of digital real- manager engagement and enhancements to market. This table is based is on the number of markets where we are in the top three or have time surveys to capture insight. By sharing this our digital services. improved rank from the previous year.
and other feedback with our front-line teams, 3 Our WPB NPS ranking in mainland China is based and allowing them to respond directly to on 2022 results. Due to data integrity challenges, customers, we are improving how we address we are unable to produce a 2023 ranking. The next issues and realise opportunities. mainland China results will be in 2024.
Acting on feedback We have continued to focus on developing In CMB, we introduced a new credit In GBM, we continued to execute our our products and services, and enhancing application system, the Digital Credit Portal, in strategy and refine the client coverage our digital capabilities to improve 15 markets. It uses internal and external data model. In 2023, we accelerated our customer experience. combined with automation to streamline 'originate-to-distribute' model, providing credit journeys. In Hong Kong, the portal clients with an effective capital efficiency In WPB, we redesigned our international also integrates with a credit decision engine strategy. We have refinanced our in-country products and services to make it quicker to automate credit decisions for qualifying and cross-border coverage model in and easier to bank internationally. This customers, reducing the assessment time mainland China and refreshed our growth involved the launch of six products and on loan approvals from days to as little plans in India based on client feedback. We services across 10 international markets. as a few minutes. Our digital onboarding also launched growth initiatives against International customers can open an tool, SmartServe, has been implemented our Asia-MENAT corridor to better service international account digitally pre-departure, in 21 markets to support international our clients.
gain access to a credit card in their new and domestic account opening. We have market, and make use of cross-border onboarded 89% of eligible customers payment solutions with 24/7 global support through the digital platform, with 72% of to manage their international needs. customers rating this experience as 'easy'.
ESG review | Governance How we listen To improve how we serve our customers, we How we handle complaints must be open to feedback and acknowledge when things go wrong. We continue to adapt Our principles Our actions at pace to provide support for customers Making it easy Customers can complain through the channel that best suits them.
facing new challenges, new ways of working for customers We provide a point of contact along with clear information on next and those that require enhanced care needs.
to complain steps and timescales.
We aim to be open and consistent in how All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise Acknowledging we track, record and manage complaints, empathy to acknowledge our customers' issues. Complaints are complaints although as we serve a wide range of escalated if they cannot be resolved at first point of contact.
customers - from personal banking and Keeping the wealth customers to large corporates, We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout customer up institutions and governments - we tailor our the complaint resolution process through their preferred channel.
to date approach in each of our global businesses. As the table on the right demonstrates, we have Ensuring fair We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and a consistent set of principles that enable us resolution ensure the right outcome for our customers.
to remain customer-focused throughout the Providing We provide customers with information on their rights and the appeal complaints process.
available rights process if they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint.
For further details of complaints volumes Undertaking root Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and by geography, see our ESG Data Pack at cause analysis address any systemic issues and to inform process improvements.

Wealth and Personal Banking ('WPB') In 2023, we received approximately 1.2 million In response to an increase in credit and debit complaints from customers. The ratio of card fraud attacks in Mexico during the first WPB complaint volumes1 complaints per 1,000 customers per month quarter of 2023, we focused on strengthening (per 1,000 customers per month) in our large markets remained stable at our monitoring and fraud detection capabilities 2023 2022 around 2.3. to help protect our customers. In October, we also released the new Visa Account Total2 2.3 2.3 In the UK, complaints fell 19%. In 2023, we Attack Intelligence tool to mitigate foreign applied the new UK Consumer Duty rules e-commerce attacks on customer debit cards.
UK3 1.1 1.4 to our complaint handling processes and As a result of these efforts, average monthly invested in root cause analysis to ensure good complaints in Mexico for the last nine months outcomes and avoid instances of foreseeable of the year decreased by 20.5% compared Hong Kong3 0.9 1.0 harm. We will continue to focus on enhancing with the first quarter.
our processes and on training complaint Mexico3 5.2 5.1 handlers to improve the customer experience In our private bank, we received 507 and reduce our complaint volumes further. complaints, an increase of 176 compared with
2022. This was largely due to growth in our The decrease in complaints in Hong Kong was customer base since establishing new private 1 A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction primarily driven by improvements in our digital banking operations in the UAE and Mexico, about WPB's activities, products or services capabilities to make it easier for customers to along with an increase in complaints in the where a response or resolution is explicitly or implicitly expected.
connect with us. Regular reviews, analysis of US. This led to an increase in administration 2 Markets included: Hong Kong, mainland China, customer feedback and greater collaboration and service issues, a high proportion of France, the UK, UAE, Mexico, Canada and the US.
across business lines to address emerging which were attributable to delays and errors 3 The UK, Mexico and Hong Kong make up 86% of customer pain points also contributed to the in processing client instructions. Overall, total complaints.
fall in complaints. the private bank resolved 465 complaints.
Complaint data for the new private banking operation in India was reported within the WPB figures, pending system development to separately report the complaint figures.
Acting on feedback In 2023, we continued to develop and embed tools and capabilities across our business to deliver improved experiences for our customers around the world. Through our measurement of customer experience, we identify opportunities for improvement, develop agile customer experience plans and track and measure our progress. As a result of standardising our approach to customer experience globally, we have strengthened our capability to listen, understand and act on what our customers are telling us on a regular basis.
92 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Governance How we listen continued Commercial Banking ('CMB') In 2023, we received 45,899 customer and We attribute the overall decrease in our client complaints, a decrease of 27% from complaint volumes to enhanced training of CMB complaint volumes1
2022. Of the overall volumes, 33,777 came our front-line colleagues to ensure they can (000s) from HSBC UK and 7,354 from Asia-Pacific. identify the differences between a complaint, 2023 2022 query and feedback. We also focused on The most common complaint related to addressing the root causes of the complaint Total 46 63 servicing and transactions, with the largest trends, as well on improvements to our volume of complaints globally coming systems, processes and advice to our clients.
UK 33.8 49.2 from business banking customers, which represented 87% of our total complaints. We resolved 47,812 complaints globally in 2023. The average resolution time for Hong Kong 6.5 8.1 complaints was 24 days, which was just above our global target of 20 days.
Acting on feedback In 2023, we focused on improvements to our governance of complaints, creating regular forums in key markets to ensure that analysis of the root cause of issues and trends are prioritised to enhance our understanding of pain points for our customers. Since the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been increased efforts Group-wide to identify customers who are more exposed to harm or declare as vulnerable. In 2023, we focused on identifying these complaint types to ensure that we can offer adjustments and support within our processes. This new process helps to improve our understanding and support of clients at risk of financial or non-financial harm to ensure our banking services are accessible to all.
Global Banking and Markets ('GBM') In 2023, we received 1,552 customer In Markets and Securities Services ('MSS') complaints in Global Banking, a decrease complaints increased by 21% to 354. GBM complaint volumes1 of 27% from 2022. Of the overall complaint We attribute some of the increase to 2023 2022 volumes, 49% came from Europe and 23% improvements in our data reporting processes came from the Middle East, North Africa and globally. The majority of complaints were Total 1,906 2,419 Türkiye. The most common complaint, at 38% operational in nature and resolved in a timely of total complaints, related to servicing, which manner. Of the overall MSS complaints, 47% Global Banking2 1,552 2,127 was in line with previous years. came from Europe and 34% from Asia, our two largest markets.
Global Markets and 354 292 Securities Services3 Acting on feedback We have continued to invest in our client feedback tool to create a more consistent and streamlined experience for colleagues across GBM and our wholesale businesses globally. In 2023, we introduced additional automation to improve the process of logging complaints, and simplified our procedures to make it easier for front-line colleagues to record feedback. We have also introduced mandatory training around conduct and complaints to ensure our people are acting on the feedback they receive and are consistent in how they evaluate queries and complaints.
1 Globally, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, relating to the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific product or service or service activity. Within the UK, a complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction - whether justified or not - about our products, services or activities which suggests we have caused (or might cause) financial loss, or material distress or material inconvenience.
2 Global Banking also includes Global Payments Solutions (previously known as Global Liquidity and Cash Management) and complaints relating to payment operations, which is part of Digital Business Services.
3 Contains Global Research complaint volumes.
ESG review | Governance Integrity, conduct and fairness Safeguarding the financial system We have continued our efforts to combat monitoring capability and our trade screening financial crime and reduce its impact on our controls, and investing in the application of organisation, customers and the communities machine learning to improve the accuracy and that we serve. Financial crime includes timeliness of our detection capabilities.
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions and export control violations, These new technologies should enhance our money laundering, terrorist financing and ability to respond effectively to unusual activity proliferation financing. and be more granular in our risk assessments.
This helps us to protect our customers, the We manage financial crime risk because it is organisation and the integrity of the global the right thing to do to protect our customers, financial system against financial crime.
shareholders, staff, the communities in which we operate, as well as the integrity of the Our anti-bribery and corruption policy The scale of our work financial system on which we all rely. We have Our global financial crime policy requires a financial crime risk management framework that all activity must be: conducted without that is applicable across all global businesses intent to bribe or corrupt; reasonable and Each month, on average, we monitor and functions, and in all countries and transparent; considered to not be lavish over 1.35 billion transactions for signs territories in which we operate. The financial nor disproportionate to the professional of financial crime. In 2023, we filed over crime risk framework, which is overseen by relationship; appropriately documented 96,000 suspicious activity reports to law the Board, is supported by our financial crime with business rationale; and authorised at enforcement and regulatory authorities policy that is designed to enable adherence an appropriate level of seniority. There were where we identified potential financial to applicable laws and regulations globally. no concluded legal cases regarding bribery crime. We perform daily screening Annual global mandatory training is provided or corruption brought against HSBC or its of 125 million customer records for to all colleagues, with additional targeted employees in 2023. Our global financial crime sanctions exposure. In 2022, we training tailored to certain individuals. policy requires that we identify and mitigate reported screened customer records as We carry out regular risk assessments the risk of our customers and third parties a monthly average, although screening to identify where we need to respond to committing bribery or corruption. Among was, and continues to be, performed on evolving financial crime threats, as well as other controls, we use customer due diligence a daily basis.
to monitor and test our financial crime risk and transaction monitoring to identify and management programme. help mitigate the risk that our customers are 98% involved in bribery or corruption. We perform We continue to invest in new technology, anti-bribery and corruption risk assessments including through the deployment of a on third parties that expose us to this risk.
capability to monitor correspondent banking Total percentage of permanent and nonactivity. We are also enhancing our fraud permanent employees who received financial crime training, including on anti-bribery and corruption.
Whistleblowing We want colleagues and stakeholders to to variable pay and performance ratings, or provides the Group Audit Committee with have confidence in speaking up when they operational actions including changes to periodic updates on their effectiveness.
observe unlawful or unethical behaviour. We policies and procedures. Specialist teams and investigation functions offer a range of speak-up channels to listen to own whistleblowing controls, with monitoring the concerns of individuals and have a zero We actively promote our full range of speak- in place to determine control effectiveness.
tolerance policy for acts of retaliation. up channels to colleagues to help ensure their concerns are handled through the most For further details of the role of the Group Audit Listening through effective route. In 2023, 4% fewer concerns Committee in relation to whistleblowing, see page 270.
whistleblowing channels were raised through HSBC Confidential Our global whistleblowing channel, compared with 2022. Of the concerns HSBC Confidential concerns raised HSBC Confidential, is one of our speak-up investigated through the HSBC Confidential in 2023: channels, which allows colleagues and other channel in 2023, 81% related to individual stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially behaviour and personal conduct, 14% to 1,746 and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to security and fraud risks, 4% to compliance local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC risks and less than 1% to other categories.
Confidential concerns are raised through an (2022: 1,817) independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines The Group Audit Committee has oversight of and a web portal in multiple languages. We the Group's whistleblowing arrangements, Substantiation rate of concerns also provide and monitor an external email and the Chair of the Group Audit Committee investigated through HSBC address for concerns about accounting, acts as HSBC's Whistleblowers' Champion Confidential in 2023: internal financial controls or auditing matters with responsibility for ensuring and overseeing (accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). the integrity, independence and effectiveness 41% Concerns are investigated proportionately of the Group's policies and procedures.
and independently, with action taken where appropriate. This can include disciplinary Regulatory Compliance sets the (2022: 41%) action, such as dismissal and adjustments whistleblowing policy and procedures, and 94 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Governance A responsible approach to tax We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all - We seek to ensure that our entities - We implement processes that aim to jurisdictions in which we operate, and to active in nil or low tax jurisdictions have ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated minimise the likelihood of customers using clear business rationale for why they are products and services are not provided to our products and services to evade or based in these locations and appropriate our customers.
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide transparency over their activities.
by international protocols that affect our - We seek to have open and transparent Our tax contributions organisation. Our approach to tax and relationships with all tax authorities. Given The effective tax rate for the year of 19.1% governance processes is designed to achieve the size and complexity of our organisation, was higher than in the previous year (2022: these goals. which operates across over 60 jurisdictions, 4.7%). The effective tax rate for the year was a number of areas of differing interpretation increased by 2.3% from the non-taxable Through adoption of the Group's risk or disputes with tax authorities exist at impairment of the Group's interest in BoCom, management framework, we seek to ensure any point in time. We cooperate with the and reduced by 1.6% by the release of that we do not adopt inappropriately tax- relevant local tax authorities to mutually provisions for uncertain tax positions and by motivated transactions or products, and that agree and resolve these in a timely manner. 1.5% by the non-taxable provisional gain on tax planning is scrutinised and supported by the acquisition of SVB UK. Further details are genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no With respect to our customers' taxes, we are provided on page 369.
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. guided by the following principles: The UK bank levy charge for 2023 of $339m With respect to our own taxes, we are guided - We have made considerable investments was higher than the charge of $13m in 2022, by the following principles: to support external tax transparency mainly due to adjustments arising upon filing initiatives and reduce the risk of banking prior year returns, which represented a credit
- We are committed to applying both the services being used to facilitate customer in 2022 and a charge in 2023.
letter and spirit of the law. This includes tax evasion. Initiatives include the US adherence to a variety of measures arising Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the As highlighted below, in addition to paying from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of $6.8bn of our own tax liabilities during 2023, Shifting initiative including the 'Pillar Two' Financial Account Information ('Common we collected taxes of $10.8bn on behalf global minimum tax rules which will apply Reporting Standard'), and the UK legislation of governments around the world. A more to the Group from 2024. These rules seek on the corporate criminal offence of failing detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes to ensure that the Group pays tax at a to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion. paid in 2023 is provided in the ESG Data Pack.
minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction in which it operates. We have identified 12 jurisdictions that may have an effective tax rate below 15% in 2024. We continually monitor the number of active subsidiaries within each jurisdiction as part of our ongoing entity rationalisation programme.
Taxes paid - by type of tax Taxes paid - by region Taxes collected - by region Tax on profits $3,685m (2022: $2,429m) Europe $2,945m (2022: $2,745m) Europe $4,714m (2022: $4,197m) Withholding taxes $432m (2022: $361m) Asia-Pacific $2,488m (2022: $1,894m) Asia-Pacific $3,226m (2022: $3,274m) Employer taxes $1,052m (2022: $1,041m) Middle East, North Africa Middle East, North Africa Bank levy $57m (2022: $314m) and Türkiye $296m (2022: $259m) and Türkiye $77m (2022: $67m) Irrecoverable VAT $1,298m (2022: $1,152m) North America $389m (2022: $207m) North America $1,119m (2022: $1,129m) Other duties and levies $249m1 (2022: $232m) Latin America $655m (2022: $424m) Latin America $1,680m (2022: $1,493m) 1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $91m (2022: $94m) ESG review | Governance Conduct: Our product responsibilities Our conduct approach guides us to do the Our approach includes: Financial promotion right thing and to focus on the impact we have Our policies help to ensure that in the sale for our customers and the financial markets - designing products to meet identified of products and services, we use marketing in which we operate. It is embedded into the customer needs; and product materials that support customer way we design, approve, market and manage - managing products through governance understanding and fair customer outcomes.
products and services, with a focus on five processes, helping to ensure they meet This includes providing information on clear outcomes: customers' needs and deliver a fair products and services that is clear, fair and not exchange of value; misleading. We also have controls in place to
- We understand our customers' needs. ensure our cross-border marketing complies
- periodically reviewing products to help with relevant regulatory requirements.
- We provide products and services that offer ensure they remain relevant and perform in a fair exchange of value. line with expectations we have set; and
- We service customers' ongoing needs and - improving, or withdrawing from sale, put it right if we make a mistake. products which do not meet our customers' Product governance
- We act with integrity in the financial markets needs or no longer meet our high standards. Our product management policy covers we operate in. the entire lifecycle of the product. This
- We operate resiliently and securely to avoid Meeting our customers' needs helps ensure that our products meet our harm to customers and markets. Our policies and procedures set standards to requirements before we sell them and ensure that we consider and meet customer allows continued risk-based oversight We train all our colleagues on our approach needs. These include: of product performance against the to customer and market conduct, helping intended customer outcomes.
to ensure our conduct outcomes are part of - enabling customers to understand the key everything we do. features of products and services; When we decide to withdraw a product
- enabling customers to make informed from sale, we aim to consider the Designing products and services decisions before purchasing a product or implications for our existing customers Our approach to product development is set service; and and agree actions to help them achieve a out in our policies and provides a clear basis - ensuring processes are in place for the fair outcome where appropriate.
on which informed decisions can be made. provision of advice to customers.
Our policies require that products must be fit-for-purpose throughout their existence, They help us provide the right outcomes for meeting regulatory requirements and customers, including those with enhanced associated conduct outcomes. care needs. This helps us to support customers who are more vulnerable to external impacts, including the current cost of living crisis (see 'Supporting our customers in challenging economic times' on page 15).
Our approach with our suppliers We maintain global standards and procedures and servers, and computer hardware. Supplier code of conduct for the onboarding and use of third-party Engagement with suppliers has given Our supplier code of conduct sets out our suppliers. We require suppliers to meet our us a better understanding of their ambitions, targets and commitments on the third-party risk compliance standards and decarbonisation efforts and the challenges environment, diversity and human rights, we assess them to identify any financial and opportunities of achieving net zero in and outlines the minimum standards we stability concerns. these categories. As a result, strategies for expect of our suppliers on these issues. We these procurement categories will include seek to formalise adherence to the code Sustainable procurement decarbonisation plans from 2024 onwards. with clauses in our supplier contracts, which Supporting and engaging with our supply - We completed analysis to understand the support the right to audit and act if a breach chain is vital to the development of our impacts and dependencies of our supply is discovered. At the end of 2023, 95% of sustainable procurement processes. In 2023: chain on biodiversity. The analysis will approximately 10,400 contracted suppliers inform the development of a biodiversity had either confirmed adherence to the
- We published net zero guides to help strategy for global procurement in 2024, to supplier code of conduct or provided their own buyers and suppliers understand our reduce supply chain biodiversity impacts. alternative that was accepted by our Global net zero ambitions. The guides explain Procurement function.
- We launched the supplier diversity portal in our carbon reduction requirements and the UK and US. The portal enables small and provide practical advice for meeting these For further details of the number of suppliers in ambitions, as laid out in our supplier code medium-sized enterprises or businesses, each geographical region, see the ESG Data which are majority-owned, operated and Pack at of conduct.
controlled by historically underrepresented
- We began developing decarbonisation groups, to register interest in becoming plans for high-emitting procurement an HSBC supplier. For further details, see categories, including real estate services,  data centres responsibility/working-with-suppliers.
96 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023 ESG review Governance Safeguarding data Data privacy We are committed to protecting and As part of our three lines of defence model, respecting the data we hold and process, in our Global Internal Audit function provides accordance with the laws and regulations of independent assurance as to whether our the markets in which we operate. data privacy risk management approaches and processes are designed and operating Our approach rests on having the right talent, effectively. In addition, we have established technology, systems, controls, policies and data privacy governance structures, and processes to ensure appropriate management continue to embed accountability across all of privacy risk. Our Group-wide privacy policy businesses and functions.
and principles provide a consistent global approach to managing data privacy risk, and We continue to implement industry must be applied by all our global businesses practices for data privacy and security. Our and functions. Our privacy principles are privacy teams work closely with our data Data Privacy Day available at  protection officers, industry bodies and esg-and-responsible-business/managing-risk/ research institutions to drive the design, operational-risk. implementation and monitoring of privacy In January 2023, we held a hybrid solutions. We conduct regular reviews and roundtable event for our colleagues to We conduct regular employee training privacy risk assessments, and continue to mark International Data Privacy Day.
and awareness sessions on data privacy develop solutions to strengthen our data The event was hosted by our Global and security issues throughout the year. privacy controls. Head of Data Legal, and guest speakers This includes mandatory training for all our included the former UK Information colleagues globally, with additional training We continue to enhance our internal data Commissioner and industry specialists sessions, where needed, to keep up to date privacy tools to improve accountability for from an external law firm, with HSBC's with new developments in this space. data privacy. We have procedures to articulate own data privacy experts in attendance.
the actions needed to deal with data privacy We provide transparency to our customers considerations. These include notifying The event covered privacy-related and stakeholders on how we collect, use regulators, customers or other data subjects, developments likely to have the greatest and manage their personal data, and their as required under applicable privacy laws impact across the Group. Key themes associated rights. Where relevant, we work and regulations, in the event of a reportable included upcoming data privacy with third parties to help ensure adequate incident occurring. reforms in the UK and the implications protections are provided, in line with our for global organisations, and trends data privacy policy and as required under Intellectual property rights practices in enforcement of data privacy laws data privacy law. We offer a broad range of We have a group intellectual property risk and regulations. We also reviewed the channels in the markets where we operate, policy, supported by controls and guidance, to impact, successes and challenges of through which customers and stakeholders manage risk relating to intellectual property. General Data Protection Regulation can raise concerns about the privacy of This is to help ensure that commercially and ('GDPR') implementation globally.
their data. strategically valuable intellectual property is identified and protected appropriately, Our dedicated privacy teams report to the including by applying to register trademarks highest level of management on data privacy and patents and enforcing our intellectual risks and issues, and oversee our global data property rights against unauthorised use privacy programmes. We review data privacy by third parties. Our intellectual property regularly at multiple governance forums, framework also helps us avoid infringement including at Board level, to help ensure of third-party intellectual property rights, appropriate challenge and visibility for senior supporting our consistent and effective executives. Data privacy laws and regulations management of intellectual property risk in continue to evolve globally. We continually line with our risk appetite.
monitor the regulatory environment to ensure we respond appropriately to any changes.
The ethical use of data and AI Artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies provide the opportunity to process and analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies offer significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for the financial services industry and society as a whole. We have a set of principles to help ensure we consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC's Principles for the Ethical Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at We continue to develop and enhance our approach to, and oversight of, AI, taking into consideration the fast-evolving regulatory landscape, market developments and best practice.
ESG review | Governance Cybersecurity The threat of cyber-attacks remains a concern Policy and governance Cyber training and awareness for our organisation, as it does across the We have a robust suite of cybersecurity We understand the important role our people financial sector and other industries. As policies, procedures and key controls play in protecting against cybersecurity cyber-attacks continue to evolve, failure to designed to help ensure that the organisation threats. Our aim is to equip every colleague protect our operations may result in the loss is well managed, with effective oversight and with the appropriate tools and behaviours they of sensitive data, disruption for our customers control. This includes but is not limited to need to keep our organisation and customers' and our business, or financial loss. This could defined information security responsibilities data safe. We provide cybersecurity training have a negative impact on our customers and for employees, contractors and third parties, and awareness to our people, ranging from our reputation, among other risks. as well as standard procedures for cyber our top executives to IT developers to front-line incident identification, investigation, mitigation relationship managers around the world.
We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical and reporting.
events and changes to the cyber threat Over 94% of our IT developers hold at least landscape and take proactive measures We operate a three lines of defence model, one of our enhanced security certifications with the aim to reduce any impact to aligned to the enterprise risk management to help ensure we build secure systems our customers. framework, to help ensure oversight and and products.
challenge of our cybersecurity capabilities Prevent, detect and mitigate and priorities. In the first line of defence, we We host an annual Cyber Awareness Month We invest in business and technical controls have risk owners within global businesses and for all colleagues, covering topics such as to help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber functions who are accountable for identifying online safety at home, social media safety, threats. Our cybersecurity controls follow and managing cyber risk. They work with safe hybrid working, and cyber incidents and a 'defence in depth' approach, making use cybersecurity control owners to apply the response. Our dedicated cybersecurity training of multiple security layers, recognising the appropriate risk treatment in line with our and awareness team provides a wide range complexity of our environment. Our ability risk appetite. Our controls are designed to of education and guidance to both customers to detect and respond to attacks through be executed in line with our policies and are and our colleagues about how to identify and round-the-clock security operations centre reviewed and challenged by our risk stewards prevent online fraud.
capabilities is intended to help reduce the representing the second line of defence.
impact of attacks. They are independently assured by the Global Internal Audit function, the third line of We have a cyber intelligence and threat defence. The assessment and management of Over 99% analysis team, which proactively collects our cybersecurity risk is led and coordinated and analyses internal and external cyber by a Global Chief Information Security Officer, information to continuously evaluate threat who has extensive experience in financial Employees completed mandatory levels for the most prevalent attack types services, security and resilience, as well as cybersecurity training on time.
and their potential outcomes. We actively in strategy, governance, risk management participate in the broader cyber intelligence and regulatory compliance. The Global Chief community, including by sharing technical Information Security Officer is supported by Over 94% expertise in investigations, alongside others in regional and business level chief information the financial services industry and government security officers. In the event of incidents, the agencies around the world. Global Chief Information Security Officer and IT developers hold at least one of our internal relevant supporting officers are informed by secure developer certifications.
In 2023, we further strengthened our cyber our security operations team and are engaged defences and enhanced our cybersecurity in alignment with our cybersecurity incident capabilities with the objective to help reduce response protocols. Over 90 the likelihood and impact of unauthorised access, security vulnerabilities being exploited, Key performance indicators, control data leakage, third-party security exposure, effectiveness and other matters related to Cybersecurity education events were and advanced malware. These defences build cybersecurity, including significant cyber held globally.
upon a proactive data analytical approach to incidents, are presented on a regular basis help identify advanced targeted threats and to various management risk and control malicious behaviour. committees including to the Board, the Group Over 96% Risk Management Meeting and across global We work with our third parties, including businesses, functions and regions. This is suppliers, financial infrastructure bodies and done to ensure ongoing awareness and Of survey respondents to cybersecurity other non-traditional third parties, in an effort management of our cybersecurity position. education events said they have a better to help reduce the threat of cyber-attacks understanding of cybersecurity following impacting our business services. Our cybersecurity capabilities are regularly these events.
assessed against the National Institute of We have a third-party security risk Standards and Technology framework by management process in place to assess, independent third parties, and we proactively identify and manage the risks associated with collaborate with regulators to participate in cybersecurity threats with supplier and other regular testing activities. HSBC also engages third-party relationships. The process includes external independent third parties to support risk-based cybersecurity due diligence reviews our penetration and threat-led penetration that assess third parties' cybersecurity testing, which help to identify vulnerabilities to programmes against our standards cyber threats and test security resilience.
and requirements.
98 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2023